[PAGE 1]
READ ME
FEEL FREE TO SHARE.
SEND DOC LINK ONLY!
IGNORE THE PAGE NUMBERS
PROVIDED.
SOME INFO IN TEXTBOOK MAY
NOT BE IN THIS DOCUMENT!
SO READ FROM THE TXTBOOK.
To anyone who is on the vocab doc that is a copy, please click on the following link for the
latest/updated version of the doc so you don’t miss out! Official APUSH vocab index
For some reason, the key key terms doc for Bellas has vanished from Canvas, so here’s the doc
one of my friends gladly handed me (thank you!): Bellas Key Key Terms
For those that don’t know what it is, it’s literally just key terms needed for Reading Quizzes. I
would recommend you use this APUSH doc and the key terms doc in conjunction with each
other.
APUSH VOCABULARY DOC
Current Ownership by: Terry
Original Ownership by: Yifei , Ian , and Ryan
but Huni’s
here too. And also Bowin has a cameo. And Joyce is here too now. And Aiden is here (a lot more than you think) when he's not lazy.
Josh´® is here as well. Trevor’s joining in Also have a rant about uh… idk? It’s a lot of text about like… league. And Guilty Gear. and Persona.
And League. There’s some valorant. And Machine Learning. And whatever I decided to put here. This stuff gets insane. The first bit’s scuffed
but we get good at this by period 2. Trust us it gets good by the second season. We also update this thing like once every 2 weeks so
uhhhhh do not expect consistent updates expect updates
The rant is pretty weird ngl at first its clickbait titles but then it becomes something else…
Period 7 starts at page 147 btw you’re welcome.
W b Fea ack tae cur h s D aeO s r iyy nzi B fee .i S sDh loOo w wINl m yB a d kRe e sYr cZ e KEn ’s dHa s nA i t nCe t Ko 4 7 i4n 00s 00a h nCp itSy ? . ? Nr ? eE? mW? e ? mT??Eb ?Ce rH : 1E0Q0 0EAQPE GE,O QN,E Q WEQREOQNEGw UQNEBQEELQIEEVQAEBQLEEQ +E50Q0E LQP ( wNhEyW is R thYeZrEe J aU wN tGheLrEe H 💀 AC) K (m RisAinRpEu t1) / i1t 0is0 fOorD thDeS r YooOt Uc leWaIrLlyL .N AOlsTo BhEavLeIE tVhiEs WbloHcAkT o Hf tAePxtP wEhNicSh NisE aX Tbu InRcEhL oIAf iOnsUaTnPityL AaYnEd Dth RenA Ga Ebu SnRchO o Bf OstOufMf I WtypHeAdD fDorU sPo mSRe Ore HasEoRnE TODAY I AM GOING TO BE PLAYING RENEKTON TOP AGAINST NUNU AND I WILL BE TRYING THE NEW META AP RENEKTON THIS IS SO OP!!!!!!! Nunu ghost cleanse new meta!!!

[PAGE 2]
READING QUIZ#1 INFO STARTS HERE
Ordinances of Discovery - A law passed by the Spanish government that disallowed the
Spanish from military conquering and invading the Indigenous Peoples of America. This was to
incentivize the missionaries sent to the Americas to convert the Indigenous peoples of America
to Christianity rather than outright kill them because Christianity was a great way for the church
(and as a result the crown) to take control over a population.
Catholic Missions/Missionaries - People sent by the church to convert the Indigenous People of
America to Catholicism. Oftentimes they would have churches protected by a military fort, which
they called “Presidios”, which is where the Presidio (REMEMBER THE PLACIDIUM PRESIDIO)
gets its name from.
St. Augustine - Established in 1565. St Augustine was the first permanent Spanish settlement in
what is now the US. It originally served as a military outpost and headquarters for unsuccessful
military campaigns against the Indigenous Peoples of America?? (what does this mean dawg
💀) it means they wanted to kill natives.
Pueblo Revolt of 1680 - The Pueblo colony established by the Spanish forced the Pueblo
people in what is now Santa Fe to work long and hard with no benefit (Encomienda System),
while also forcing the Pueblo people to discontinue celebrating their culture. As a result, the
Pueblo people revolted and due to the pressure from this revolt, the Spanish were forced to
rework and almost entirely remove the Encomienda System, replacing it with a system in which
the Pueblo people were able to work a lot less for more benefit, and also freely celebrate their
cultures, as long as all newborn Pueblo people were baptized. This greatly increased the
strength of the relationship between the Spanish and Pueblo.
Spain’s Vast Empire - Spanish empire was massive, and more so economically than in any
other way. Due to their success in colonizing the South Americas, the Spanish forced the
Indigenous people there to dig for silver and gold in the Encomienda system, which allowed
them to produce literally 10x more free of the silver and gold than the entire world COMBINED.
That is nearly a 91% hold of the entire global silver and gold market at the time. Because of this,
Spain was able to conquer and take over so many portions of the world in the forms of colonies,
or if they were feeling generous trading outposts.

[PAGE 3]
Rigid Royal Control - Spain’s colonies in the Americas were controlled by the Spanish
government, and the Spanish government/crown made it a priority to make sure these colonies
were under strict control. (COME BACK TO LATER)
A Collision of Cultures - the contact between the Old World and American Indians in which both
groups absorbed aspects of the other, although different colonial powers interacted with Natives
differently, such as allowing them to continue speaking their own language or not, converting
them, etc.
Increasing Levels of Exchange - Refers to how heavily the Europeans and Indigenous peoples
affected each other, both positively and negatively. Europeans brought over livestock such as
horses(super important to the Indigenous people), while also bringing diseases that wiped out
entire populations of Indigenous people such as smallpox, influenza, measles, chicken pox,
mumps, and typhus. The Europeans also brought mass destruction to both the Indigenous
people and the surrounding environment. Indigenous people introduced new farming methods,
crops such as corn and potatoes, tobacco. In terms of the negatives, some Indigenous groups
were aggressive towards the Europeans, some even launched attacks on European
settlements(after being attacked first by the Europeans).
Demographic Catastrophe - Entire Indigenous populations were nearly or entirely wiped off the
face of the earth, with 95% of the Hispaniola population dying to disease or Christopher
Columbus and his weapons. These death counts are so high that it is believed that it far
outnumbers the Black Death’s death toll, which at the time had killed a third of the population of
Europe. This unintentional(but sometimes intentional) weapon caused genocide to nearly 90%
of all Indigenous populations that would maintain contact with the Europeans.
Deliberate Subjugation and Extermination - The Spanish used smallpox as a weapon,
devastating many indigenous peoples and weakening their armies.
New Crops and Agricultural Techniques - Because the crops that were brought to the Americas
would not prove to grow well or at all on American soil, the Indigenous people lended a hand by
introducing the Europeans to all sorts of different crops that we are very familiar with today, such
as potatoes, beans, peppers, tomatoes, sweet potatoes, pumpkins, squash and especially, corn,
which even today is in around what..75-80% of the world’s processed food(easy sugar). In
addition, the Indigenous people also taught the Americans unique farming techniques that
worked especially well in the Americas, such as girdling, where the trees are stripped of the
bark around the base, or setting fire to the roots so that the trees are devoid of nutrients.
A Complex Racial Hierarchy - Spanish Empire/Colonies implemented a racial hierarchy for the
Spanish colonies, with the White Spanish at the very top of the hierarchy, the mixed Mestizos,
who were quite common in the middle, and lastly of course the Indigenous peoples at the
bottom because uh. Europe + racism = <3 💪 (I love racism 😍😍😍😍(Jk don’t cancel me
guys 🙏))
Varied Labor System - European labor was mostly provided to by (basically enslaved)
Indigenous peoples, who were either full on slaves or were indentured servants who were…also
basically slaves because their servitudes were that long. However, this proved to be not enough
to fully break a profit or meet labor costs, so the Spanish started, you guessed it, importing
African Slaves (and indentured servants). (Who'da thunk it 😱)
Ghana and Mali - In Africa, there were 2 extremely large empires that had a large control and
reach over Western Africa, these 2 being Ghana and Mali. These 2 empires compromised their

[PAGE 4]
economies mostly of ivory, gold, and slaves who were mostly PoWs of the lands that either
empire conquered, criminals, or people who had big debts they couldn’t pay off. These 2
empires were extremely sophisticated and became the hubs for learning and development for
much of Africa, drawing in Europeans to explore the area and trade as well.
Benin, Congo, and Songhay - Benin, Congo, and Songhay were 3 smaller but somewhat
sizable countries in Africa that were South of the goliaths that were Ghana and Mali. These
kingdoms had economies of woven fabrics, ceramics, wooden and iron goods, and crops and
livestock. It is thanks to these economies that the African continent was able to function at such
a high pedigree at the time.
Matrilineal Societies - African states were mostly Matrilineal, which means that land ownership
and social aspects were mostly controlled by women. In marriage, it is expected that the man
moves into the woman’s family and home. Heritage was traced by mothers, and property was
inherited from mothers rather than fathers. Although the leaders of African states were all men,
the successors would always be the child of the former leader’s eldest daughter. In society,
women also played a significant role, with there often being split councils for women’s affairs,
Ain terms of gender equality, while European states were calling women witches for knowing the
cube root of 8. (T
f 8) (2) (Nah it can’t be two…)
Growth of the African Slave Trade - Due to the increasing need of African slaves to work
plantations in the Americas, the larger African empires saw this as an incredible financial
opportunity to export more African slaves to the Europeans, going to war with even more
kingdoms. At first, the Portuguese had control over the slave trade, then the Spanish, Dutch,
and lastly the English. These slaves were exported all over the Americas, but the initial most
popular destination was the Caribbean, because a majority of the people there had already
been wiped out by disease so the Europeans couldn’t forcefully enslave them, and also
because sugar, the primary export of that area, was super labor intensive.
John Cabot - An Italian explorer, first cunt to come to the New World after the Norse.
Commissioned by the British . John Cabot was mainly looking for a NorthWest passage through
the continent to get to what is now the Pacific ocean, but proved to be unsuccessful because it
didn’t exist.
The Enclosure Movement - A growing trend in England where bigtime landowners saw that wool
and sheep were a lot more profitable than normal crops due to higher wool demand (global mini
ice age from 1300-1850, we will see how this affects fur demand later), so they converted their
lands into pastures, and as a result kicked out the farmers who were there to farm crops,
sending thousands of farmers to homelessness, this was what was considered the “Enclosure
Movement”. who would have to beg for food and money, resorting to even robbing because of
how terrible their situation was. The English government did pass some laws to halt Enclosure,
but they proved to be unsuccessful, and with the majority of the English farms being used for
wool, the country found itself starving, with a population still heavily on the rise, giving even
more reason for the English to sponsor settlement in the Americas. Fields to Pastures
Chartered Companies - Group of investors form a company which is granted rights
by/incorporated into royal powers. Often the right for trade, exploration, and settlement (and
absolute control and rule over the area with no regard for the Indigenous populations that
already lived there :D)

[PAGE 5]
Mercantilism(wow never seen this one) - An economic policy that serves to maximize net profit
by cutting imports and maximizing exports and is state sponsored, as the idea of people
venturing out for goods and exports was not seen as a too popular option for governments to
sponsor in the past, but with the rise of the Portuguese empire it proved that mercantilism was
definitely the way to go . Supports national wealth as opposed to capitalism which is about
stuffing the pockets of a private individual or group.
Richard Hakluyt’s Argument for Colonies - Richard argued that colonies would create new
markets that would make England more rich. In addition, colonizing the new world would help
alleviate the overpopulation crisis undergoing in England.
Doctrine of Predestination - French Theologian John Calvin was an influential reformer after the
Protestant reformation led by Martin Luther. Him and his followers, the Calvinists(Boutta pull up
with my Yifeians) believed that a soul’s destiny was determined at birth for either salvation or
condemnation, and the only way to determine this was to see if you were useless to the society
around you or if you helped it, incentivising people to work hard to better the people around
them so that they could go, “aha! I am indeed destined for salvation!”
The English Reformation - A lot different from the Protestant reformation, the English
reformation was Crown vs Pope. King Henry VIII got pissy that he couldn’t divorce his wife
because he couldn’t get the son he wanted, so he broke England’s ties with the Catholic
church (And because he hated the pope(based)) , instating himself as the leader of Christianity in
England. Henry’s daughter queen Mary became queen of England and started a brutal
persecution of all those who did not convert to Catholicism, giving her the nickname of “Bloody
Mary” (Bloody Mary my beloved 😍) . England was basically in an insane religious turmoil.
Puritan Separatists - Protestants that became unhappy with the church due to the church’s lack
of reformation became the Puritans, because they wanted to “Purify” the church. Separatists
refers to the radical ideas that the Puritans had and how they wanted to become independent of
the Church of England, making them “Puritan Separatists”. This dissatisfaction with the Church
of England and the oppression and discrimination they received from the government and crown
in England gave them good reason to move to the American colonies, making them a large
portion of the population in America, and heavily impacting American colonies, especially those
more North such as Massachusetts.
Puritan Discontent - Queen Elizabeth’s successor James I antagonized Puritans, resorting to
random taxation(what a classic!), granting Catholics charters and favors. Because of this, many
Puritans saw the new land in the Americas as possibly a place that could prove to be of great
benefit to them as a recluse from England.
Subjugation of Ireland - Basically England says “It’s gamer time” and invades Ireland, calling
them “savages” and “uncivilized” (wow I wonder if they will say this to any other peoples and
ethnicities later on?!). This invasion brought fame to some people who governed over the newly
attained English colonies in Ireland, including a certain Sir Humphrey Gilbert and Sir Walter
Raleigh. Their violent tactics in suppressing the Irish populations would prove to inspire later
English tactics in the Americas.
The Plantation Model - The English were very unwilling to integrate into Indigenous society and
live alongside them unlike the Spanish and French, and as a result started their Plantations,
which were plots of land that were fenced off from Indigenous people(literally or figuratively) and
would serve as little plots of English society, which was inspired by the exact same model that

[PAGE 6]
was used in Ireland. Now lemme tell you why this is not the best idea: Ireland geographically is
a lot more familiar to the British, so growing crops and stuff is somewhat easy and doable, and
m.so is traversing the land and building on it. The American colonies are 4.4k nautical miles
away from England, and DO NOT have similar geography to England. You can see where this is
going can you…
Coureurs De Bois - Term used for French fur hunters/trappers. These guys didn’t actually
physically hunt the animals used for the furs and pelts they sold to Europe most of the time
actually, but acted as a middleman between the Indigenous peoples and Europe, making big
bank from the process, as not only could they charge a high price to the Europeans while
buying low from the Indigenous peoples, but the global demand for furs and pelts at the time
was incredibly high as as said before, the world is in a mini ice age from 1300-1850.
Henry Hudson - Pictures of this guy are not actually him! There are no real paintings of him that
actually (officially) exist today. Henry Hudson was an English explorer employed by the Dutch to
sail up the river which is now named the Hudson River because uh you know, Europeans. He
would eventually find the area that is now New York, and establish a Dutch colony in the
Americas.
New Amsterdam - New Netherlands became the new Dutch colony up North of the American
coast, with New Amsterdam as its largest and central town, which will see staggering growth in
its lifespan. The colony was able to survive thanks to the implementation of the patroons
system, where landlords were granted ownership of lands in the Dutch colony in exchange for
the promise they would bring more people to the Dutch colony.
Spanish Armada - The Spanish Armada was basically the Spanish military fleet. This fleet was
extremely feared as the sheer size of it made it incredibly strong and dangerous, and at the
time, the Spanish and English were at conflict/butting heads with each other, and to spice things
up (idfk im tired), the Spanish decided to bring the Armada across the English channel to
directly attack the English, which failed to a much smaller English fleet. This greatly weakened
the Spanish economy and global presence because the colonies that were held by the Spanish
were government sponsored and controlled, and the military going to shit kinda destroys your
economy and that of your state owned colonies 😬. On the flip side, this gave the English the
100% go ahead to start developing their own colonies.
Gilbert’s Expedition to Newfoundland - Sir Humpherey Gilbert got permission from Queen
Elizabeth for 6 years to freely travel and take over any un-European-claimed(?) in the Americas.
Gil was unsuccessful in finding a spot, his ship sinking and lost at sea, but his buddy Walter
Raleigh kept on pushing with his ship, eventually finding himself also 6 years to freely travel
through the Americas to find a spot to build a possible settlement, and that he did, sending a
group of men to the Americas, where they found out from captures Indigenous peoples that an
island named Roanoke could possible serve as a spot for a colony.
The First Roanoke Colony - Richard Grenville left settlers on the island of Roanoke which had
earlier been found by Sir Walter Raleigh’s men, and promptly destroyed the Indigenous people’s
village over a minor theft, and went back to England for some unspecified reason, leaving
behind a couple colonists (thanks textbook). Sir Francis Drake then arrives in Roanoke with
supplies meant for the remaining colonists, taking them home cuz they were starving and dying.

[PAGE 7]
Attempt 2! Raleigh sends more people this time, led by John White. John White after dropping
the folks off and helping out a little goes back to England, where his return to the colony is
delayed due to a Spanish English conflict, and when he goes back he finds the colony
completely deserted, with nothing but “Croatoan” written on a post, which in the textbook has no
meaning but a Lemmino video has some PRETTY damn good evidence that all the Roanoke
settlers moved to a nearby island, where they integrated into the Indigenous people’s society
there (as is evident from some of the Indigenous people having blue eyes or lighter skin).
New Colonial Charters - This charter divided the American colonies in 2, the London group got
the charter to the south, and the Plymouth colony got a charter for the north. May or may not
have contributed to the very very different culture and political view differences in the North and
South (wow is that more Civil War foreshadowing??)
Early Problems - James I had 144 men board 3 ships to the American coast and into what is
now Chesapeake and up the James river that they named, establishing Jamestown. The area
sucked though, swamps, thick woods, and disease such as malaria ravaged the initial settlers.
The settlers brought no women with them, and everybody was too focused on getting gold for
some odd reason. Only thanks to the help of the nearby Indigenous people that they were able
to survive, who taught them to grow crops and how to cultivate the land.
The Starving Time - 600 more settlers came to Jamestown, including women and children. This
proved to be not the best idea though, since in 1609 the winter was uh. Out for blood. Due to a
severe lack of planning, any agriculture whatsoever, and malaria, everyone was starving and
dying and also pretty miserable because of starving and everyone dying. The Jamestown
settlers ate literally anything, dogs cats, rats, snakes, toadstools, the soles of their shoes, tree
bark, and even dead human bodies. The winter was so harsh, that of the 6-700 people there,
only 60 lived, however, thanks to some awesome stuff we call lies and deceit, more migrants
came, expecting to find the Jamestown colony in full swing, but instead finding nothing but 60
starving and probably mentally scarred settlers.
De La Warr’s Harsh Discipline - Tobacco was found out by the English, and as a result the
English quickly started to grow tobacco to fund their colony, which they became crazy rich off of.
However, the leader of the plantations, De La Warr proved to be a very unpopular and strict
leader, often flogging, hanging, or “breaking on the wheel”(basically you are tied to a large
wooden wheel, and uh. I don’t need to finish that but you get the idea) anybody who wouldn’t
work when they were supposed to.
Wasn’t very popular, so his successor tried using positive reinforcement. Work and you get
land!!! Yay!!!!
Emergence of the Tobacco Economy - John Rolfe decided to try to crossbreed a South
American and North American tobacco (Illegal! ) and with the help of the Indigenous people,
succeeded, making an incredibly efficient and addictive tobacco plant that would make him
RACKS in the global economy at the time, and anyone that had the bravery to travel over the
the Americas to grow tobacco. This would cause the English to move deep into the Indigenous
land in prospect for more land to grow more tobacco, breaking the once good relationship
between the Indigenous people and the English.
The Headright System - Headrights were 50 acre guarantees given to anybody that would settle
the American colonies by the Crown of England. This was to incentivize the people of England
to move to the Americas so that not only England would get rid of a growing problem of the

[PAGE 8]
population not being able to feed itself, but also so that they could rake in some of the tobacco
cash. Europeans loved it! Indigenous people? Not so much…
Suppression of the Powhatan Indians - The Powhatan Confederacy, a collection of groups of
Indigenous peoples that were brought together by the chief Powhatan lived in the
Virginia(Jamestown) area obviously long before the English arrived. Sir Thomas Dale led
extremely violent and successful attacks on the Powhatan Confederacy members, capturing
Pocahontas(not actually her real name btw), the daughter of Powhatan, and got married to John
Rolfe, who brought her back to England where everybody was shocked that Powhatan, the
daughter of the chief of an entire confederacy decided to marry a lower class person like John
Rolfe, which is kinda ironic considering you’d think people would be more shocked that John
Rolfe would marry and bring back someone the English considered “savages”. Pocahontas was
actually a great asset for both the Powhatan and the English, and helped soften relations
between the English and Powhatan by being a translator.
Demise of the Virginia Company - The Virginia Company, the company that had been
sponsoring so many of the Jamestown pursuits had actually failed to satisfy the crown and the
conflict with Indigenous peoples there turned out to be pretty unpopular back at home, so
James I revoked their charter, with the Jamestown colony becoming under control of the English
crown up until 1776.
Indian Agricultural Techniques - The Indigenous peoples of America native to the East Coast
had many agricultural techniques that hard carried the Europeans settlers, such as girdling
trees, which removes the bark from the bottom of the tree or by setting fire to the roots, which is
actually quite smart now that I think of it. This is like the 5th time I’ve said this but as always, the
Indigenous people taught the Europeans how to grow crops like corn, potatoes, and tomatoes,
which were extremely important, especially corn, yada yada.
Proprietary Rule - The Maryland colonies had started due to a father’s wish for a land he never
visited to become a recluse for English catholics, his name was George Calvert, and his
successors would do good on his wish. Cecilius Calvert, his son, received a charter from the
king that allowed him control over Pennsylvania, Delaware, and Virginia, and Calvert had
“Proprietary Rule” over the land, in which he was the “true and absolute” lord (so basically 100%
control) of the land, and all he had to do was pay an annual fee to the crown.
Religious Toleration - Because of the number of Protestants leaving England, Maryland’s
population actually became majority Protestant despite it being meant more for Catholics, so
Cecilius Calvert, the leader at the time of Maryland established a Religious Toleration act,
allowing for any and all Christians to celebrate the sects they chose to.
Virginia’s Westward Expansion - Virginia continued to move Westward into Indigenous
controlled areas, and border conflicts were very common (wow who would’ve thought it the
Indigenous people don’t like their land being taken). The Indigenous people however were no
match for the English brutality and guns, so Virginia’s Westward expansion proved to be pretty
smooth (and by that I mean incredibly bloody for the Indigenous) and quick.
Berkeley’s Autocratic Rule - Sir William Berkeley, the governor of Virginia, becomes an Autocrat,
which means that he is the person in power, and people who are loyal to him will stay in their
positions of government. This leads to people being severely underrepresented, especially folks
who live in the backcountry.

[PAGE 9]
Backcountry Grievances - So this guy named Nathaniel Bacon is part of Berkeley’s council, but
he’s against Berkeley for numerous reasons. First of which being that Bacon and his posse Not
just his posse, but most of the people in less developed areas of Virginia. are constantly getting
attacked by indigenous people, which leads to Bacon disagreeing with Berkely’s more passive
rules about the indigenous people. Secondly, Bacon is upset that he’s not part of the inner
government, and that he’s not making any money from the fur trade.
Significance of Bacon’s Rebellion - Nathaniel Bacon, a wealthy aristocrat and Cambridge Uni
graduate had arrived in Virginia when it was under the control of William Berkley. Bacon was
ambitious and hated Berkley because Berkley didn’t let him have a portion of the fur trade that
was shared between the English and Indigenous people, in addition, Bacon was also not
allowed into the inner governing circle of Virginia, making him PISSED. After a Doeg
(Indigenous people) attack on an English plantation, Bacon led his own counter attack on the
Doeg, where he proclaimed himself a rebel, as he did the counter attack on his own and without
permission. Now, Bacon had a reason to rebel against Berkeley. Him and others that were
unhappy with the landlords of Virginia, mainly lower class workers, indentured servants, or
slaves, not exclusive to race so both English and African peoples joined in, led a revolt on
Berkeley, which the outcome is just completely left out in the textbook :) thanks. THE
SIGNIFICANCE: It proved that no matter what race, low income people were low income
people, and when the system they are in clearly oppresses them and forces them into a certain
financial class, they will unite. This would lead to slavery being tied to race in fear of the African
and English low incomes uniting again to bring the high income aristocrats and landlords out of
power. The thought was, by separating the English from African slaves, the English would not
see the Africans at the same level, and it worked I guess. cooked system, but we all knew that
already
Religious Repression - Puritan Separatists, who wanted to cut ties with the Church of English
and wanted to be able to celebrate their own Christian theology were continuously persecuted
and the American colonies did not seem like a bad idea.
The Mayflower Compact - Some Puritans in England, unhappy with the treatment they had at
home decided to move over to the American colonies, traveling aboard the Mayflower, they left
Plymouth(ENGLISH PORT, DON’T MIX IT UP), and although the destination was supposed to
be the Hudson River mouth, they found themselves in what is now Cape Cod, arriving in an
area named Plymouth which had been named by Captain John Smith some years before. That
was confusing, let me sum it up: Pilgrims leave Plymouth, England, and arrive in Plymouth
Americas, which got its name PRIOR to the Pilgrims arrival by John Smith who had already
been there before. The Mayflower Compact just basically said that the Pilgrims would establish
a civil government and would be loyal to the Crown of England.
Relations with the Indians - Ah but there’s more this time in comparison to the 20 other times
I’ve talked about Indigenous English relationships. Some Indigenous people that were captured
by or decided to accompany the English learned and picked up English proved to be of great
help by translating for the English settlers, and sHoWiNg HOw tO pLaNT cORn, PotAtoeS, etc.
Some of these awesome dudes included Squanto and Samoset. Squanto was a Pawtuxet, Ms.
Bellas told us this wild story of how Squanto got kidnapped to England, learned English, and
somehow made it back to the same area but his tribe died of disease so he was kinda just
there. Samoset was uh hurr durr look guys I’m APUSH textbook and REFUSE to admit my

[PAGE 10]
mistakes or lack of specific information so instead I will leave this information up to mystery and
speculation jaja :DDDDD good luck on a bs test you gotta pay for!!!! Back to what I was saying,
thanks to these guys, the Wampanoags became allies with the English, and baddabing
baddaboom first thanksgiving in 1621 yahoo!
Also more specifically, the Pilgrims had a relatively positive relationship with the Wampanoag
tribe, especially given Squanto’s abilities as an interpreter.
William Bradford - Plymouth chose William Bradford as the leader of the Plymouth colony,
receiving a charter from the Council of New England so that he could freely do whatever he
pleased in the Plymouth area.
Massachusetts Bay Company - Back in England, many Puritans had had enough(and I’ve had
enough with telling you that Puritans are pissed) thanks to Charles I, who was the successor of
James I, who really was not a fan of anybody that wasn’t a Roman Catholic, and would imprison
Puritans just for their beliefs, although not as much as some other English rulers, so a large
group of them moved over to what is currently Massachusetts to start a new colony. These guys
were mostly merchants, as were most Puritans, and as a result started the Massachusetts Bay
Company. Now how did they even get permission to go to Massachusetts? Well, they simply got
a charter from King Charles I, who was completely unaware that these guys were Puritans. The
company made a large portion of revenue from fishing and the other early American colony
economy stuff like tobacco, corn, trading with the Indigenous people, and so forth.
John Winthrop - John Winthrop was selected as the governor of the company and as a result
the Massachusetts area, and under his rule Massachusetts started to grow like crazy, although
most likely due to the insane work ethic that a majority of the Massachusetts Bay Company had,
with Boston being quite a decently sized town, and other towns popping up like crazy, such as
Charleston, Newtown(later Cambridge), Roxbury, Dorchester, Watertown, Ipswitch, Concord,
Sudbury, the list goes on.
The Congregational Church - Since the charter given to the Massachusetts Bay Company was
one issued by the King (obviously), the company was forced to keep ties with the Church of
England, in which they uh…kind of didn’t care…not that they didn’t cut ties, they just ignored the
fact they did. Each church in the charter was basically independently run, and each church
Joyce Gong
6:21 PM Dec 17
i have 2 other finals i need to study for asap, so im going to do something brief for each some of
them for now and fill it in later tn
10 of 142
11
10
9
8
7
6
5

[PAGE 11]
4
3
2
1
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
Summary
Outline
Headings you add to the document will appear here.
centralized themselves and handled their own matters, making them the “Congregational
Church”.
A Theocratic Society - The Massachusetts colony was considered a “theocratic society”
because oftentimes the government would come to the aid of the church in the form of helping
out ministers, who backed the church but had no official political power. This made it so that
anybody who opposed the church or the Ministers would be punished or treated the same as
breaking a law, so it was kind of easy to say that Massachusetts was simply run by the churches
that it supported.
Growing Religious Dissent - More non-Puritans came to Massachusetts, and these people could
not vote because they were not considered Puritan “saints”. Most of these folks left for New
England or Connecticut. One important person in particular that left Massachusetts was Thomas
Hooker, who was a minister of Newtown (later named Cambridge) due to the ways he defied the
Massachusetts government, and left for Connecticut, establishing Hartford, and those Hartford
guys later established two other towns.
Roger Williams - Roger Williams was basically this one guy who nobody agreed with but
everybody loved. It’s like that one uncle with different political views but always treats his kids,
nephews and nieces with good food and gifts at reunions. Roger Williams was a Separatist, and
argued that the Massachusetts church should cut ALL TIES with the Church of England, which
would definitely put a big target on Massachusetts’ back. He also called for the Church to
completely separate from the state and government, which also didn’t fare too nicely with
everybody in Massachusetts. This did not mean he didn’t have followers however, and promptly
moved to Rhode Island after getting a charter from English Parliament, even getting permission
on the charter to “liberty in religious concernments”.
Anne Hutchinson - Anne Hutchinson was a woman that was highly educated in the study of
Theology, and had some at the time radical thoughts about the church. She antagonized many
of the Massachusetts members for not being part of the “elect”, basically saying “you ain’t fit fo
yo role foo”. After displaying pretty reasonable evidence and gaining a very large following of
both men and women, the Massachusetts government decided to intervene, putting her on trial

[PAGE 12]
for heresy, where she was convicted for being a “woman not fit for our society”. She also moved
to Rhode Island and then New Netherland. Although her life would be ended short by an
Indigenous attack, her legacy would live on as seen in the next term.
New Hampshire and Maine - John Mason and Fernandnino Gorges would get the rights to the
New Hamsphire land and would split it up while Mason is known for attracting the earlier settler
there.Some time after that, John Wheelwright, a disciple and follower of Anne Hutchinson led
some other like minded people to Exeter, which is located in New Hampshire, with more people
later following, with New Hampshire breaking off from Massachusetts, and Maine later in 1820.
Importance of Indian Assistance - The Indigenous people helped with agriculture, teaching the
English how to farm the crops native to the Americas, such as corn, potatoes, tomatoes, beans,
sweet potatoes, squash and pumpkins, with corn bEiNG tHe mOsT ImPoRTaNT. They also
learned agricultural techniques such as annual burning so the soil received fresh fertilizer. The
Indigenous people were also the primary trade partner for the Europeans, trading iron pots,
blankets, metal-tipped arrows in contrast to the flint or obsidian arrows used by the Indigenous
people, guns, and unfortunately alcohol to the Indigenous people in exchange for…THE
TEXTBOOK DOESN’T SPECIFY??????
Shifting Attitudes - The English first viewed the Indigenous people with a begrudging admiration
as they were able to so easily and fluidly handle the foreign American land, but as the English
started to move more into the Indigenous territories, the English started to view the Indigenous
peoples as “savages” and “heathens” because apparently fighting back when someone is trying
to take your land is something that would give you that title. Great job guys.
The Pequot War - This and the next term will be about conflicts between the Indigenous and
English, since the textbook has been hyping this up ike a new Marvel movie, never giving us
any information but telling us “oh there was conflict!”. ANYWAY; conflict broke out between the
Pequot people and the English in Connecticut over the fact that the Pequot were trading with
the Dutch, so the English allied themselves with the Mohegan and Narragansett (rival groups of
Pequot), killing just about the entire Pequot people, so the English achieved their goal of being
able to trade with the remaining 3 Pequot people. Great job English dudes but yet again :D
King Philip’s War - Something to clear real quick: King Philip was actually the leader of the
Wampanoags (yes the ones from the Pilgrims section earlier), and was not a European, and
instead was actually named Metacomet sounds like an undertale oc ( ur so right wtf) by his own
people, so that’s what I will call him out of respect because King Philip was a nickname given to
him by the English and I hate them for making me sit here for 5 hours writing ONLY ABOUT
THEM in this index.
This is a lengthy conflict, so I have broken it into 2 paragraphs, the first (the one you just read)
being an introduction. Metacomet basically told himself and his people that the only way to
properly handle the oncoming danger that was the Massachusetts Englishmen from taking their
land was only by attacking first. So for 3 years, the Indigenous organized and armed themselves
with Flintlock Muskets (whoa what's that term below this one!!). The Wampanoags led attacks
on a string of Massachusetts towns, killing thousands of European males. Although this proved
to be a major setback to the Massachusetts, the Europeans fought back with incredible ferocity

[PAGE 13]
and won over the Wampanoags, thanks to a ton of help from the Mohawk people, who rivaled
the Wampanoag, who helped organize attacks, and also kill Metacomet.
Flintlock Musket - This one will be easy thank the lord. This is a key term because the
Wampanoag, who had done a ton of prep for the attacks on Massachusetts had armed
themselves with specifically Flintlock Muskets. Now you might be thinking, “why is this special?
The Europeans had them too” And you’d be right, BUT, the English opted for the slower and
clunkier matchlock rifle because it was what they were a lot more accustomed to as the
Flintlocks were newer and unfamiliar. The Flintlocks were lighter, faster, and a lot easier to use,
so the Wampanoags, who had no experience with any sort of rifle in the first place obviously
opted to use the objectively better option, allowing them the destruction of the Massachusetts
colonies that was discussed before. In fact, the Matchlock rifles were so shitty, that on most
occasions the Indigenous people could easily match the rifles battle prowess with a good old
fashioned bow because it was just that much quicker even though it was not as accurate or had
as much firepower.
Tldr Because of guns, a lot more people died in King Phillip’s war.
READING QUIZ#2 INFO STARTS HERE
Origins ENGLISH CIVIL WAR - Charles I was unpopular with parliament because he uh…
dissolved it so the parliament members were all unemployed all of a sudden. This launched
England into a Civil War, with those who were on the Crown’s Side, named the Cavaliers , led
by a trio of Lebron James, a young Kyrie Irving and a veteran Kevin Love and those who were
on Parliament’s side, the Roundheads , or as some would call them, the Golden State
Warriors, led by the first ever unanimous MVP in league history, Stephen Curry, some guy who
looks like a Chipotle employee named Klay Thompson who would put up 37 points in one
quarter, and a DPOY candidate in Draymond “Technical Foul” Green. Eventually, the
Roundheads would prove to win, beheading Charles I , i n spiring other countries to do the
same (why does it smell like baguettes , cigarettes, and constant anger in here? Charles II,
the son of Charles I would eventually come back after being exiled for the throne, which he got.
He quickly set about trying to reform England, attempting to bring about Religious Tolerance, but
failing due to Protestant and Parliament backlash.
New Proprietary Colonies - Ok I’ve calmed down, Charles II does actually have something to do
with the US part of APUSH, specifically, he granted a bunch of charters to Carolina, New York,
New Jersey, and Pennsylvania, making these the New Proprietary Colonies as said in the key
vocab here.
Incentives For Settlement - New settlers to America were often given rewards for making the
journey as to incentivise more people to settle the new frontier, such as the idea of political
freedom , where laws were made by a representative assembly, kind of like a senate. Examples
include: House of Burgesses.
Fundamental Constitution for Carolina - The colony of Carolina was founded by Ashley
Cooper , soon to be the Earl of Shaftesbury. He convinced investors to finance his trip to
Carolina, and he set out with 300 people to Carolina, surviving with 100 people left, naming 2

[PAGE 14]
rivers on the way, the Ashley River, and Cooper River . He then went on to draw up the
Constitution for Carolina with the help of John Locke the Philosopher . This constitution
would help decide how to distribute land and design a social order for Carolina .
North and South Carolina - The Carolina colony was extremely large and the Northern and
Southern regions would not get along as they were completely opposites, with the Northern
portion being a lot more isolated and virtually without slaves, and the Southern portion being
filled with rich soil and as a result, African slaves and a larger population(wow I wonder where
this is leading?? The south was also a prominent trading area for cotton and other goods, and
traded with Barbados a lot, giving slaves in exchange for resources. South Carolina also used
Barbados’ slave based society with white plantation owners on the top. (hmm i wonder what
effects this has on the modern day) Definitely not the bloodiest conflict in American history or
something that was fought over Slavery). Farmers from both sides would often get into conflict,
and in 1729, the King of England just said fk it, y’all are splitting.

[PAGE 15]
Week 2 vocab terms (pages 51-117 (estimated)):
*pages 50 - 85 according to live agenda
™ t iamat best component? k id named serrated dirk
Capture of New Amsterdam pg51 - Dutch and English were under heavy competition with each
other in the colonies, competing over trade territory and commercial gain. English in particular
saw the Dutch as a major problem, and would come to resent the Dutch colonies for being a
wedge between the North and South English colonies. Because of this, the English sailed into
the New Amsterdam port and took over the New Amsterdam area under the Articles of
Capitulation.
Establishment of New Jersey pg52 - New Jersey was founded when one of James II political
allies was given a charter for the land from James II. This charter would prove to be somewhat
unsuccessful in getting profit for the colony, and eventually New Jersey became a royal colony
under James's rule. New Jersey, similar to New York, was incredibly diverse. However, New
Jersey’s industry basically stayed as just farming and didn’t really move forward anywhere.
The Society of Friends pg52 - The Society of Friends was the formal name for the Quakers who
would eventually inhabit Pennsylvania. They were also Protestants who were prosecuted in
England looking for a new place to live without fear of a crown cracking down on them. Quakers
rejected the ideas that people had predestined fates and instead chose to believe that there was
good in everybody and that everybody deserves a chance. Another cool thing about these folks
was that they really believed in the idea that women in the church could have the same
positions and power as men. In Quaker churches, the common tradition was for people to sit in
a circle and shout whatever came to their mind that could be interpreted as the word of God. A
bit unorthodox but a nice fresh change and also definitely a more liberal and accepting style.
Bruh society of friends is such a good name fr ong no cap 💯 no kizzy brah
William Penn pg53 / Pennsylvania Founded pg53 - Quakers, who were also a Christian sect
moved from England to the American colonies. Quakers were unwanted basically everywhere,
and in Rhode Island they were even heavily physically abused. It was only in present day
Pennsylvania where they managed to escape prosecution. I think it’s good to mention that
people didn’t like them for being pacifists and for supporting gender equality and for being nice
to people regardless of class (feelsbad). Some guy named George Fox who wanted to make a
colony in Pennsylvania was able to make friends with a bunch of different rich quakers, one of
these being William Penn. Also important to mention Penn had a bunch of favors with King
Charles II to cash in because his dad was a cool guy or something. William Penn was able to
turn Pennsylvania into a prosperous colony and quickly became the center for the English
colonies in America. Philadelphia, the largest city in the colony, set an example for the future
cities in America, featuring rectangular streets. Penn made sure to buy land from the Indigenous
people nearby instead of outright conquering and taking over their land due to Penn’s quaker
beliefs.
Charter of Liberties pg53 - Penn at the time, had become Proprietor of the Pennsylvania colony
and his position was actually quite unpopular despite him being quite the good leader. People
called for a reduction in his power, and in William Penn fashion, he ordered for a charter from
the crown so that he could rule Pennsylvania with an assembly, greatly reducing his own and

[PAGE 16]
the Proprietor’s power. Assemblies would be formed for every county in Pennsylvania, allowing
for better governing in the colony.
(man its tough for the quakers huh? From what the book says these guys are pretty darn nice
by colonial standards and they had a fire name too)
The English Caribbean pg54 - Before 1600, the main destination for the English in America was
actually the Caribbean, where they would eventually move out because the Spanish colonies
surrounded the English ones, resulting in the English colonists opting instead to move to the
mainland.
Imperial Conflict pg54 - Before the Europeans arrived in the Caribbean, there were already a
decent number of Indigenous peoples living there, such as the Arrawaks, Caribs, and Ciboney.
Columbus’s first exposure to the people of the Hispaniola island basically left the entire
population wiped out by European diseases. Eventually, more European empires came to the
Caribbean, including the Dutch and English, who served as major competition for the Caribbean
area for the Spanish.
READING QUIZ#1 INFO ENDS HERE.
Sugar and Slavery pg55 - Sugar is a super labor intensive crop, and the Caribbean was full of it.
Europeans looking to get an easy buck imported over a bunch of Indentured servants to work
the field, and eventually made the switch to African slaves because they were cheap and easy
to maintain. :(
Slave Revolts pg55 - Seven major slave revolts and the fact that the African slaves easily
outnumbered the White slave owners resulted in many White slave owners in the Caribbean
becoming paranoid of revolts and very closely and heavily monitored their work force and would
also punish them a lot more severely :(
Unstable Societies pg56 - English colonies setup in the Caribbean were unstable and would not
last long. This is because most of the English colonists had no plans to last in the Caribbean,
and saw the Caribbean as just an easy way to get some quick cash through exporting sugar
cane via slave labor. Most of the colonists were young single men, and intermarriage between
the colonists and their slaves was nonexistent. The infrastructure for a European society was
also not present. ALSO EVERYONE WAS DYING. That was a slight issue with the whole stable
society thing y’know?
Connection to British North America pg56 - The Caribbean and North American English
colonies were somewhat connected, as they formed trade networks with each other, with sugar
and rum being moved up North in exchange for products that the TEXTBOOK DOES NOT
SPECIFY. The Caribbean plantations also provided inspiration for the North American English
colonies, which is also the reason why slavery was so widespread in the South :))
Spain’s Northern Colonies pg56 - Spanish colonies North of Mexico and Florida often attracted
more religious minorities including Catholic missionaries and independent ranchers, and also
Spanish troops were looking to defend the Northern borders of the Spanish colonies. The most
famous of these colonies has to be the New Mexico colony where the Pueblo revolt happened.
(refer to Pueblo revolt in the 1st quiz section)
California pg56 - Spain already had colonies in California before they started to really ramp up
the California expansion, but after Spain saw the French and Russians attempt to expand into

[PAGE 17]
California for furs, the Governor of Baja California was ordered to expand North by setting up
more outposts. These outposts are called “Presidios” btw. Outposts such as San Diego,
Monterey, San Francisco, Los Angeles and Santa Barbara were very successful trading
outposts for the Spanish to take control of.
I m portance of the Spanish Borderlands pg57 - The Spanish borders along the Southwest were
incredibly important as they became prosperous cities and colonies for years to come, as is
evident by current day California. The Spanish made sure not to displace the Indigenous
despite not viewing them as equals and definitely not treating them well. The Spanish, unlike the
English, did not see the Indigenous peoples as obstacles that had to be overcome but rather
obstacles that had to be avoided.
Hostilities in the Southeast pg57 - Although no real conflict happened between the Spanish and
the England during this time, the Spanish and English still thoroughly hated each other. Proxy
battles were fought with each other via pirates, until the English pirates ransacked the St
Augustine outpost which was under the Spanish’s control. It was looking like the conflict
between the English and Spanish was going to genuinely happen, and a cold war started, with
the Spanish giving freedom to any African slaves that promised they would fight for the
Spanish.The english encouraged native americans to join them and stand up against the
spanish missions. Eventually the english were successful and confined the spanish to st
augustine and a little bit of land around that which forced the spanish to intermarry with africans
or native americans cuz there was so few of them. Soon after the 7 year war, the spanish were
out and the english acquired florida sending a lot of settlers over there.
James Oglethorpe’s Vision pg57 - General James Oglethorpe was a member of Parliament and
also a war hero apparently. James sought to put a barrier to protect the English American
colonies from the Spanish on the Southern Border. Oglethorpe, who had started the settlement
just North of Florida which is now Georgia was also quite the philanthropist, and when word got
out that Queen Anne’s War had started, Oglethorpe, who obviously was a general and had to
defend the Georgia colony. Knocking out 2 birds with 1 stone, Oglethorpe chose to have the
many English prisoners locked up for unfair or false debts freed for them to fight for the
American colonies against the Spanish.
Georgia’s Military Rationale pg59 - To make it easier for Georgia to defend itself, the military
consolidated more land in order to have a more centralized and compact defense. The Georgia
colony made sure to exclude African peoples entirely, free or slaves from its defense so that
they not only did not have to accommodate and be responsible for them, but also so that they
wouldn’t be able to revolt against the English and join the side of the Spanish, who were open to
freeing slaves in exchange for military service.
Transformation of Georgia pg60 - James quickly saw Georgia’s situation as a colony
deteriorate, and it was clear to him that his way of ruling things nearly as a dictatorship was not
going to work. His people complained that the lack of slavery made labor extremely expensive
and hard, and the overall growth of the colony was basically stagnant. James removed the ban
on slavery later, and eventually Georgia became a Royal Colony.
Conflict of Accomodation pg60 - The “Middle Grounds” were English colonies that although
living next to the Indigenous peoples and not directly invading their land, they still lived quite

[PAGE 18]
apart and seemed to be near conflict with them at all times. Basically they weren’t constantly
invading Indigenous land, but they were not living amongst them on super friendly terms like the
French.
Mutually Beneficial Relations pg60 - The French, who were looking to the colonies more as a
financial benefactor made sure to maintain good relationships with the Indigenous people in the
areas they created colonies. They respected Indigenous customs and traditions and recognized
the tribal chiefs amongst the Indigenous people, allowing for the French to have the best initial
relationship with the Indigenous people. The French would also often marry into Indigenous
families in order to maintain good relationships with the Indigenous people.
The Shifting Balance pg60 - As America gained its independence from the English and saw the
need to expand Westward, the English colonies destroyed many of the good relationships they
had with the Indigenous people, causing the Middle Grounds to all but never exist.
Mercantilism pg60 - bruh.
The Navigation Acts pg61 - As the English government found that the American colonies were
making a majority of their profits by selling to the Spanish and Dutch, Parliament made sure to
do something about this so that the English economy would be able to better expedite the
colonies’ earnings. They implemented the Navigation Acts, a collection of 3 laws that would
attempt to prevent the American Colonies from trading to non-English countries:
1. The first one implemented would prevent the English from trading with any ships outside
of English ships, preventing any exports from major colonies from leaving the English
territories
2. The second one saw that all the products exported out from English colonies had to
pass through England, allowing them to tax all the ships that would come through the
English channel.
3. The third law just went ahead and told customs that they had to crack down on anybody
who wouldn’t follow the navigation acts and told people to follow them and all of that.
Sir Edmund Andros pg62 - Governor of the New England Dominion put in place by the Catholic
ruler James II of England. Because of his desire to implement the anglican church and his
loyalty to the English crown, Andros became a very unpopular governor. When news of James II
being overthrown reached the New England area, it was only a matter of time (and a short
amount of time at that) before Andros too, was overthrown.
The Dominion of New England (I put this here) - James II put the New England area into a
Dominion, combining the government of all of the governments of the area, including
Massachusetts, New York, and New Jersey under one government. You would think this is a
somewhat ok thing, but one thing you gotta understand is that at this time, the colonies don’t
actually view each other as one unit of colonies, but rather their own independent individual
colonies.
Glorious Revolution (I put this here) - The Glorious Revolution was NOT an armed conflict. After
James II started receiving quite a lot of hate for causing fear amongst the protestant population
in England and the colonies, James II fled to France out of fear of what the people would do to
him after his Grandpa had been beheaded for this exact reason. James II had a child though,
and her name was Mary II and was married to William of Orange. Now as always, the textbook
doesn’t specify SHIT, so I’m gonna go out on a limb here and say that Mary II became Queen
because she was already living in England and had opted to stay there while her dad left for

[PAGE 19]
France, allowing her to easily take the throne. But either way, all you need to really know is that
James II is gone, Mary and her husband are IN.
End of the Dominion pg62 - During the Glorious Revolution, James II had his throne overthrown
by Mary II, his daughter, and her husband, William of Orange. These 2 made a ton of reforms as
they were Protestant (James was Catholic) and got rid of the Dominion of New England.
J acob Leisler: basically a dude who was sick of not being accepted into the ruling class of new
york even though he was a prosperous merchant and part of a prominent dutch family. So after
hearing abt the glorious revolution, he raised a militia and captured the fort from the previous
governor francis nicholson. He tried to stabilize rule for 2 years but was unsuccessful and when
william and mary chose a new governor, political enemies charged him with treason and he was
hanged. Fierce rivalries after this ensued between leilerians and anti leislerians which
dominated ny politics for years.
John Coode’s Rebellion pg63 - Thanks to James II falling from power, John Coode, a very
anti-Andros protestant was able to easily start a revolt against lord Baltimore (NOT GEORGE
CALVERT). Calvert family ownership -> Protestant, under the crown
Glorious revolution and the uprisings in ny + maryland had more to do with local faction and
religious stuff than a larger vision. In fact they gave the crown more authority than every with a
lot becoming royal colonies, causing them to be more of britains imperial system than ever.
Immigration and Natural Increase pg66 - People started to rapidly immigrate to the NewEngland
colonies. People of all sorts of different backgrounds, such as rich aristocrats and artisans
settled in the Americas, but for the most part the American colonies consisted of majority
English laborers.
Realities of Indentured Servitude pg67 - Although Male Indentured Servants was granted
freedom when their servitude was over, the other things they were promised such as land, tools,
and clothes for a quick start were actually not often given to them, ending up with a bunch of
homeless single males roaming the streets of New England. As for Female indentured servants,
most of them would immediately marry once they left their servitude, allowing them to live a lot
more comfortably than former male indentured servants.
Exceptional Longevity in New England pg68 - As diseases and the risks for people in the New
England area decreased, life expectancy increased. In fact, the life expectancy for the average
New England resident got so good that it was nearly the same as 20th century American
residents, with one generation even averaging out to 70 for both men and women.
More Balanced Sex Ratio pg69 - Due to the demand for more women in the American colonies,
more families sought to give birth to more children to extend the longevity of the American
colonies, and more female immigrants started to move over. Indentured servants in America
also had a large portion of their population be female, so overtime, the 3:1 or 4:1 ratio of men to
women slowly became 3:2 or 1:1.
Male Authority Undermined pg69 - Because of the desperate situation in the colonies,
responsibilities were not locked to one gender, resulting in a stronger female presence in the
colonies in jobs and responsibilities. In particular, the household saw that most peacekeepers

[PAGE 20]
and authoritative figures in the family became women. This is because while most fathers were
out working tobacco fields or lumbering, women would have to deal with a bunch of children,
and peacekeep and settle disputes amongst the kids. The reason for the large number of kids
was 1. The demand for kids in the colonies, and 2. Many couples in the colonies were already
the 2nd to 3rd relationship for the people, and would bring their children along with them. (the
reason for widows and single dads was because of the dangerous work environment of the
american colonies)
Greater Independence in the South pg70 - Because females were so rare in the American
south, it was oftentimes the females that got to decide who to marry and could pick and choose
out of a wide selection of stinky gross impoverished English plantation owners. This allowed
females more authority because they knew the demand for them was so large.
Revival of Patriarchy pg70 - As the gender ratio began to even out and the situation with
diseases and risks in the American colonies had basically all but died out, American families
and society returned to full patriarchy similar to that of their European counterparts.
Life Spans pg71 - In the north in New England, life spans were notably longer than their
western counterparts, due to a mix of good climate and lack of disease. This led to parents
being alive longer to impart their views on their children. Arranged marriage becomes more
common due to the fact that parents are alive to arrange them.
The Patriarchal Puritan Family pg71 - Also because parents are dying less, Puritanism plays a
key role in the economy and culture of the Northern Colonies. In a Puritan society, women are
seen as weak and inferior, and must submit to their male counterparts. And there are a lot more
parents and old people alive to enforce these ideas
The Middle Passage pg71- The Middle Passage is the term that refers to the journey slaves
took from Africa to the New World. Oftentimes slaves were packed into the bottoms of ships and
chained together for what could be months. Many died of disease, dehydration, and starvation
Growing Slave Population pg72 - Starting in 1700, the population of slaves in the Americas
would increase rapidly. By 1760, over 250000 slaves are in the Americas working. They often
outnumber Europeans in some areas
Uncertain Status pg73 - At first, the status of Slaves in the Americas was much less defined
and as bad as it would be. Some treated slaves as servants, and in many places slaves worked
with white servants. By the 18th century, slaves would be treated more like how we know it;
really really really badly.
Slave Codes pg74 - Laws that limited the rights of Africans, basically leaving them completely
under the control of their masters. In some areas, murdering your own slave was even legal.
The defining factor of Slave codes was that they applied to any black person, of course this was
judged by the skin color of the person.
Huguenots and Pennsylvania Dutch pg75 - Ugh why do I have the french again -w-. The
Huguenots ( hugenuts) were French Calvinists, who, with a royal proclamation, allowed them to
become practically a state within Roman Catholic France. (The name of the proclamation was
the Edict of Nates of 1598). However, the French government said haha no more edict for you
and revoked it in 1685, and the Huguenots began to leave. About 300,000 left France in the
following decades. A small number went to the English colonies in North America. (The book
then goes on to talk about Germans. I don’t wanna write all that down.)

[PAGE 21]
Scots-Irish pg76 - Ah yes, the Ulsters. I remember this.(MASSIVE CAP) Scottish Presbyterians
who settled in northern Ireland(Woah no way! Scots-Irish!!!) They prospered despite the bare
soil and constant struggle to suppress the Catholic natives. Then, in the first years of the 18th
century, Parliament did a funny and banned the import of all products that make up the Northern
Irish economy. At the same time, the English government pretty much banned the practice of
the Presbyterian religion like Clash from r6 when she was first released. The English gov also
insisted on conformity with the Anglican Church. After 1710, many of the long-term leases of the
Scots-Irish expired, and the landlords doubled or even tripled the rents. Thousands embarked
for America, where they were often coldly received and were pushed to the outer edges of
European settlement. They claimed the land with no regard as to who “owns” the land, and
suppressed the Natives brutally. .
Tobacco pg77 - One of the main Cash Crops of the south, everyone was growing tobacco. The
problem was, everyone was growing tobacco so there was often an extreme excess of tobacco
that couldn’t be sold. This leads to the price of tobacco being extremely volatile.
Indigo pg78 - Another cash crop, it is a source of Blue dye, which was in great demand in
Europe. It also was convenient because it could grown in areas where rice couldn’t, and its
harvest times lined up nicely with rice.
More Diverse Economy in North pg78 - In the North, agriculture was THE(no sarcasm here)
most important part of the economy. But unlike in the South, the colonies in the north were less
dominated by farming. The northern economy was more diverse than the economy in the South
because conditions for farming were less favorable there. Northern New England in particular
had a very hard time farming, the cold weather, hard rocky soil made it almost impossible to set
up a large-scale farming system that the southern colonies were creating. Southern New
England and the middle colonies had an easier time farming. New York, Pennsylvania, and the
Connecticut River valley were the chief suppliers of wheat to a lot of New England and even
parts of the south. Yet even in those places, a substantial commercial economy emerged
alongside the agricultural one. Nearly every colonist engaged in a certain amount of industry.
Sometimes these industries provided families with extra goods they could trade or sell.
Craftsmen and artisans established themselves in colonial towns as cobblers, blacksmiths,
riflemakers, and more.
Saugus Ironworks pg79 - The Saugus metalworks facility was the first effort that the colonists
made to establish a significant metals industry in the colonies. After iron ore deposits were
discovered in the 1640s, the colonists tried to transfer Iron technology already present in
England to the colonies. The Saugus works used water power to drive a bellows, which
controlled the heat in a charcoal furnace that melted the ore. As said ore melted, it trickled down
into molds to then be inscribed with dark magic to make tools. While it was a technological
success, it was a financial failure, and the Saugus ironworks closed its doors in 1668. (Book
goes on to talk about metalworks)
Extractive Industries pg80 - More important than manufacturing were industries that exploited
the natural resources of the continent. By the mid-seventeenth century, the flourishing fur trade
of earlier years was in decline. Replacing it were lumbering, mining, and fishing. These
industries provided commodities that could be exported to England in exchange for
manufactured goods. They also helped produce the most distinctive feature of the northern
economy: A COMMERCIAL CLASS(allegedly thriving)

[PAGE 22]
Myth of Self-Sufficiency pg80 - Unlike popular belief, very few colonists were self-sufficient. The
colonists purchased whatever they needed or could afford. Most farmers who grew grain took it
to centralized facilities for processing
Shortage of currency pg80 - Due to the lack of safety and stability in the colonies, there is no
real currency that remains stable or usable. A lack of coinage also leads to people using
bartering or trading goods as currency.
Triangular Trade pg80 - In simple terms, this describes the trade of Sugar, Rum, and Slaves
among England, the Americas and Indies, and Africa. However this is heavily simplified, and
there was a lot more trade of a lot more goods, such as rice, molasses, guns, manufactured
goods, tobacco, and other crops and resources. (more info about it in the packet we got on
1/9/23)
Emerging Merchant Class pg81 - The Merchant class was formed by a group of adventurous
entrepreneurs. For reasons unbeknownst to us(cuz the book sucks), they formed the merchant
class. This class enjoyed protection from foreign competition within the English colonies, as the
British Navigation Acts had excluded all non-British ships from the colonies carrying trade. This
merchant class had access to a market in England that needed American products like furs,
timber, and ships. But this market did not satisfy all their commercial needs. Many of the colonial
products could be easily produced by England themselves, and they needed another market
outside the British Empire. So they did a funny and ignored laws restricting colonial trade to
England; many merchants developed markets in the French, Spanish, and Dutch West Indies,
where prices were often higher than in the British colonies. The profits from this illegal activity
enabled the colonies to import the manufactured goods they needed from Europe.
Growing Consumerism pg 82 - In the 18th century, consumerism saw its way into American
society, especially in cities. This was widely due to the financial stability most city families found
themselves in in colonial America thanks to growing industries such as ironworks or tobacco
plantations. Consumerism also began to grow in the American colonies thanks to the early
stages of the industrial revolution. The industrial revolution contributed to American
consumerism because European nations started to produce high quality goods and products
that could be shipped to America, and thanks to the high income of most Americans in cities,
many Americans saw a good amount of luxury European goods displayed or in use in their
homes.
Social Consequences pg 82 - Thanks to the growth of consumerism, Americans saw a reason
to not only purchase high quality goods, but act like they were of a high class as well, leading to
a trend in which high class Americans saw to get educated and to act refined or
“gentlemanlike/ladylike”, buying English magazines on how to act like the richest of the rich
back in England, commissioning portraits of themselves and their families, got fancy furniture,
and put a fair amount of effort into appearing fashionable for the time.
Social Mobility pg 82 - Social mobility refers to the way that people move up and down in the
social hierarchy that is present in society back then and today. For example, England was
unable to have a high social mobility rate, since land was super scarce for how insanely high the
population was at the time. Land ownership was almost nonexistent and the people who did
own land would often be at the top of the financial/social ladder for ages until they for some
reason got rid of their land, simply because land means power. Whereas in the colonies, it was
the exact opposite. Land was abundant and people were scarce, allowing for better social

[PAGE 23]
mobility amongst the people, as people could easily obtain land and with enough smart choice
and hard work(slave labor) could easily move up the social ladder. This shows how social
mobility was a lot more present in colonial America in comparison to the rest of the world.
Vagaries of the Plantation Economy pg 83 - Real quick; “vagaries” refers to a change in
behavior for those who don’t know. Basically all this keyword is saying is that tobacco
plantations early on would always make either a lot of money or very little. This is because most
plantations were 100% reliant on the price of one crop, mainly tobacco. This weeded out the
bad plantation owners from the good ones, since the planters who were better would be able to
weather the storm and not have to worry about going bankrupt during bad times.
Stratified Southern Society pg 83 - Stratified in a social context refers to a hierarchical format,
where those who are the wealthiest are at the top with the most power, vice versa. In the South,
with how important plantations were, plantation owners with the most land could easily control
the people who worked on their plantations, including the smaller farmers who would work on
the plantations but without the smaller farmers, the plantation owners couldn’t turn a profit. Still,
the plantation owners were the richest out of the American South, and dominated the market
despite the small farmers and slaves making up the majority of the population.
Slave Culture pg 84 - ooh this was one of the more fun parts of the book to read since I never
knew about anything related to this, and it’s honestly just interesting. American slaves, due to
them being in close proximity with each other(in terms of those who worked the same
plantation) formed very close bonds with each other and developed an intricate culture unique
to slaves. This included things such as Gullah, a language that was a blend of English and
African languages as to not allow the slave owners to get in on all of their conversations, and a
distinct religion which combined Christianity and African religions. The textbook however, gives
0 examples which is just…wonderful. African slaves would also often start their own gardens
and farms next to the quarters where they would live to grow their own food, with the seeds
mostly being provided by the plantation owners or most likely taken/given from other farms.
Slaves often had such close bonds that even new slaves who were not in the families of the
slaves of the existing plantation would be welcomed as relatives and treated like family.
Stono Rebellion pg 85 - In 1739, 100 or so African slaves rose up and killed several white
people and attempted an escape to Florida, but eventually had some White people quickly
capturing them. This is important because it shows just how futile it was for African slaves to
attempt to resist the White plantation owners. Slaves would often escape, but upon capture
(which was common) they’d be sent back to their plantation where they would be SUPER
heavily punished. American slavery in the south was by far the worst that slavery had been at
any point in history, despite the history of slavery stretching all the way back to the first human
civilization. This established some new slave codes for 1740 (1705 was the first slave code
btw). (BTW this was the beating drums rebellion that we learned in class)
Patterns of Settlement pg 85 - Puritan settlements began drawing up “covenants”, a system in
which all of its members in the settlement were connected in “unity and harmony” and I bet like
God’s piss or something idfk. In this settlement, colonists would lay out a village with houses
around a central pasture, otherwise known as the “common”, and divide the fields and
woodlands of the town amongst its residents. This helped reinforce a strong sense of
community in Puritan societies in the Americas.

[PAGE 24]
Puritan Democracy pg 86 - Puritan societies ran on yearly town meetings in which a group of
adult males named the “selectmen” would discuss issues and problems regarding the
settlement. This was also decided based off of church membership status, those who were part
of the church would be among the elect, or “visible saints”, while those who were not would
need conversion, and were the “halfway covenant”
Population Pressure pg 86 - Because of the population growth of the Puritan settlements, more
and more people began to search for new land to farm and own. This caused people to move
farther and farther away from the community centers that Puritans had set up generations
before. This would cause people far away from their own community centers to feel the need to
build their own facilities such as churches, starting their own communities. This is kind of like
cell growth.
Generational Independence pg 86 - Despite Puritan societies being majority Patriarchy, in
practice this was just in name. Farmland was hard to work, and everyone had to chip in to help
feed the large families, wives and daughters too. Even though males still had a majority of the
control in a family, the voices of the females of the family were always heard out of necessity for
their work, and also obviously because they’re families and respect each other.
Salem Witch Trials pg 86 - The most infamous witchcraft cases in American history were served
in Salem Massachusetts, where hundreds of people were accused of witchcraft in the late
1600s. These witchcraft cases were inspired by the voodoo lore of the Indigenous peoples just
west of Salem. In total, 19 residents were put to death, and most of these were young
adolescent women at that :(. Expanding on this, it is important to talk about who was considered
a candidate for witchcraft back then. Any women who would show a fair amount of intelligence
in comparison to her peers (women were almost never given education past primary school),
women who were independent and owned land were also considered witches, although the
accusers oftentimes were probably really just looking to take the women’s land, not accuse the
women of any superstitious behavior. Women with no children and widows were also prime
targets.
Growth of Colonial Cities pg 87 - There were cities in the colonies. These cities did in fact grow.
In fact, By the 1770s the two largest ports in Philadelphia and New York has populations of 28k

[PAGE 25]
and 25k each. Wow! Middle colonies stay winning. Cities served as trading centers and as
markets for international trade.
Commercial and Cultural Importance pg 88- Cities were the centers of industry, with more luxury
and manufactured goods being imported and exported. For example, sugar and molasses from
the Caribbean were used to create valuable rum. Culturally, new problems like Crime, pollution
and Traffic began to happen. Also Cities tended to serve as hubs and centers for new ideas
both politically and scientifically. Coffeehouses provided spaces for people to debate n stuff.
READING QUIZ#2 INFO ENDS HERE
Roots of Religious Toleration pg 89 - Religious tolerance in America was at some of the best
and highest rates seen in comparison to Europe. This was widely due to the sheer amount of
people who were of different and unique religions (although a ok ll were Christian sects, barring
a couple hundred Jews, and the later millions of slaves with their own beliefs, but those guys
don't count in the colonial American consensus). The Church of England was the official church
for most of the colonies, but the power was greatly undermined due to laws and also the fact
that there was really just not a lot of people to enforce the Churches’ power
Anti Catholicism pg 89 - Protestants were so tolerant in fact that they hated the existence of
Catholics in their New World. This hate was less of a “we hate who you are go die” kind of hate
and more of a “We hate the pope and are you gonna rival us in power” kind of hate. There
weren’t enough catholics to really match the protestants, so they really just were discriminated
against in places like Maryland, where they lost their rights to office and to practice religion in
public.
Jeremiads pg 90 - This one has a sick title: Jeremiads were “Sermons of Despair” that were
head by Puritan ministers as a result of the weakening loyalty to the church that people had
developed. This effort to keep the church alive in Colonial America would eventually lead to the
Great Awakening, in which churches in the American colonies attempted to greatly reform the
church to appeal to a wider audience, and also because they just felt like the church needed
some reform
Old Lights and New Lights pg 91 - With the cool Great Awakening, as with all new things, some
people did not like change. This caused a schism between the “New Lights”, or those who had
adapted the teachings of the Great Awakening and the “Old Light” Traditionalists who didn’t
really want to change. There’s also this one part about how some New Lights hated education
but some didn’t??? Ok i guess.
Traditional Authority Challenged pg 91 - This term refers to the Enlightenment’s competition in
the minds of Colonial Americans to the churches’. Enlightenment started to catch steam in
Europe, and so did it in the colonies, people began to see the world for how it was and decided
to derive solutions and answers from their own minds rather than a singular God or supernatural
phenomena. People began trusting their own brains more, and thus a larger interest in politics,
education, and the economy grew, with more people interested in bettering the society around
them not just through the word of God but also by the better interest of everyone around them.
PERIOD 3 92 - 185

[PAGE 26]
High White Literacy Rates pg 92 - In America, there was an increased importance put on
Educating people and making sure they could read. Many Religious Communities created their
own schools in order to make sure people could read scripture, and many Trade Schools were
created so people could learn crafts. Many White Men were literate in the colonies, in fact over
HALF OF THEM by the Revolution could read and write. The large number of people being able
to read (like this text here) allowed for more Intellectual publications like almanacs.
Liberal Curricula pg 94 - Colleges in the colonies, such as Harvard, Yale, Princeton, Columbia,
University of Pennsylvania, College of Philadelphia, and William and Mary College just to name
a few, were basically all founded on religion and theology, more as means to train priests and
ministers. However, this did not stop many of the scholars within the institution from teaching
subjects outside of Religion, even some subjects that directly opposed it, such as some
sciences. This practice was in fact, backed and supported by the religious institutions that ran
the colleges. Some of these subjects included but are not limited to: physics, geometry,
astronomy(specifically Copernican astronomy), Rhetoric, Latin, Hebrew, Greek, mechanics,
chemistry, agriculture, government, commerce, modern languages, liberal arts, logic ethics, of
course theology, and the University of Pennsylvania was even able to open the colony's first
ever medical school
LIBERAL?????? :anger:
Smallpox Inoculation pg 94 - As everyone in the colonies knew due to the fact that literally like
all the indigenous people died from it, smallpox was seen as kind of a small big issue. But due
to the Enlightenment, more people were willing to try scientific experiments, like Inoculation!
Apparently some guy named Cotton Mather heard from his slave that giving people small cases
of smallpox led to immunity. So this guy tries it out, finds out it’s working in England, and
advocates for the Inoculation of people against smallpox. He did a pretty good job because by
the middle of the 18th century, Inoculation was a pretty common and widespread thing
Colonial Legal System pg 95 - Because of how far contact between the Americas and Europe
was, there was no real reason for the American colonists to follow the English law so closely. In
fact, there were many many laws that were changed in the American colonies to better suit the
needs and wants of the colonists. This is also due to the fact that there weren’t a lot of English
lawyers present, so the knowledge of the specific laws in England were scarce and hard to
come by, leading to more unique laws. This is evident in the way that criminals were punished in
the Americas, while English criminals were often sentenced to long jail times in the prisons or
gallows, American criminals often got physical beatings, whippings, floggings, branding, “the
stocks” which is basically wooden feet cuffs that were rigidly stuck together, not with chains, and
“the ducking stool”.
Colonial Governments pg 96 - Again, because of how far contact between Americans and the
Crown was, governments in colonial America kinda got to do whatever they wanted, so it
became very accustomed to the colonists to have a lot of issues be dealt with a nearly fully
self-governing body, which was oftentimes just in the community and were small assemblies of
community members. The Governors of the colonies oftentimes did not have a lot of power,
since their power came from the crown which was kind of a joke at this point, and also because

[PAGE 27]
at any moment in time, the power of the governor could be stripped away from them at the snap
of the Crown’s fingers.
CHAPTER THREE ENDS HERE
READING QUIZ#3 INFO STARTS HERE
Decentralized Colonial Administration pg 99 - Colonial government and law enforcement was
extremely decentralized, with no colonial office located in London to represent the colonies. In
addition, there was little to no infrastructure to actually enforce and govern the colonies. This
resulted in self-governing colonies.
Powerful Colonial Legislatures pg 100 - Colonists kinda ran their own governments, and these
governments often overpowered the Parliament and Royal authority. Colonial governments
could pass laws, levy taxes, make appropriations and appointments, and also could bypass the
governor.
Albany Plan - pg 100 Ben Franklin sees the merit in having all the colonies united against
common enemies, and having a central government for the colonies. Parliament would have
power to control Indigenous relations for the colonies and would have a leader appointed by the
king and an elected parliament. However, this idea never went through, and Ben Franklin calls
everyone a dumbass because these are the same people that want to reject Franklin’s idea of
unionizing.
An Uneasy Balance of Power - pg 101 - The English, French, and Iroquois Confederacy are all
vying for power in the Colonies, and they have an uneasy peace going on. However this peace
is broken in the 1750s, starting the French and Indian war.
New Sources of Conflict pg 101 - Religion and Trade create new conflicts between the French
and English. For example, the Fur trade brings many French colonists to the New world, and
French Jesuits convert many to Christianity.
France’s North American Empire pg 101 - France sets up forts and stuff in the New World, near
the Mississippi and Canada areas. New Orleans also serves as a pretty profitable trading and
plantation area for the French.
The Iroquois Confederacy pg 102 - The Iroquois Confederacy is a group of 5 Indigenous nations
(Mohawk, Seneca Cayuga, Onondaga, Oneida) that are all in an alliance with each other. They
are like the top clan in all of the Northwestern Area and win all the clan wars like full 30 stars.
Most importantly, they beat their rival the Hurons. Once they had control over their territory, the
Iroquois traded with French, Dutch, and English Colonists. They maintained their independence
by remaining neutral and playing the French and English against each other.

[PAGE 28]
European Seeds of Conflict pg 102 - After the Glorious Revolution in England, the English
Throne passed to one of Louis XIV’s enemies (William III), who really does not like the French.
He starts a bunch of fights against France that continues for 80 years or so.
Fort Necessity pg 103 - New rookie to the English/French Tensions is George Washington (who
is this guy). In the summer of 1754, Washington built Fort Necessity in the Ohio Valley to
challenge the French and their Fort Duquesne. Washington attacks the French and fails, he gets
counterattacked and then like a third of Washington’s soldiers die and the guy folds
(surrenders).
Braddock Defeated pg 103 - General Edward Braddock is the Appointed leader of the British
Army and basically gets dunked on when he tries to take the Ohio River in 1755. The guy dies.
RIP. Apparently he was a big deal?
William Pitt Takes Charge pg 103 In 1757, William Pitt (English Secretary of State) takes things
into his own hands and begins to pull himself up by the bootstraps and WIN THIS WAR (he
enlisted colonists). William Pitt brings England back ballin in the 4th by putting ALL THE
COLONIES under British control. He does a bunch of planning and appointing and ordering and
all that stuff, and he also enlists colonists under the “impressment” system. Colonists aren’t too
happy about this guy since he basically lets Soldiers use all the colonist’s resources like food
and shelter and that stuff without compensation. However in 1758, Pitt realizes that recruiting
people that hate you is kind of a bad idea so he goes easier on the whole “no compensation”
thing and also gives the colonists more control over the whole fighting stuff.
Siege of Quebec Pg 105 - Jeffrey Amherst and James Wolfe jump the French, who are
weakened due to poor harvests. In July 1758, they take Louisbourg, and then they go on to
sweep the French at Duquesne and Quebec in 1759. These wins for the British result in the
Peace of Paris and a lot of dead native people, as there are bounties for those who show proof
of killing a Native person.
Peace of Paris pg 106 - Signed in 1763, the Peace of Paris resulted in French ceding a ton of
territory to England in the Indies, India (the one in Asia with the taj mahal), and all American
Territory east of Mississippi now called New Orleans. They gave New Orleans and all the land to
the West to the Spanish.
Consequences of the Seven Years War pg107 Although the British and Colonial soldiers fought
side by side in this war, the grievances of the Colonial soldiers were mainly about the fact that

[PAGE 29]
the British were treated so differently in comparison to their American counterparts. Colonial
soldiers resented the British soldiers for their general outlook on the war. Americans believed
they were fighting for the better of the colonies and the people of the colonies, while the British
were deemed arrogant and treated the war as a joke. This became a massive reason why
American sentiment for the British dropped so low during the years before the war. Also
important to mention that the British felt like the colonists got carried and then got a massive
ego afterwards (like valorant?????)
Commercial VS Territorial Imperialists pg 107 The Way England viewed the colonies was
debated on heavily, and there were two main groups:
Commercial Imperialists wanted to focus on Mercantilism, trade and exports in the form of
goods
Territorial Imperialists argued that land itself was a source of income through taxation (huh) and
increased population doing work.
These two groups debated heavily after the French and Indian War, as Commercial Imperialists
wanted to negotiate for “Sugar Islands” in the Indies, while Territorial Imperialists argued for
more French Territories in the Americas.
I
Britain’s Staggering War Debt pg 108 Due to the costs of sending troops to America, and
fighting, and defending the Americas, Britain was in HOLY SHIT levels of Debt. This was made
worse by the colonies lack of/very light amount of financial contribution to war efforts. Parliament
and the King decided that taxation was the only way they could get the colonies to pay up. (I
feel bad for England imagine essentially fighting a war for someone and not getting paid back
for it)
George III’s shortcomings pg 109 (he’s INSANE CRACKED IN THE BRAIN FR)
My boy George is inbred or something, because he’s mentally unstable. He has bouts of
insanity, and he also has a severe inferiority complex which is not a good thing for the leader of
a world power to have. He’s also really immature
Proclamation of 1763 pg 109 Proclamation of 1763 was an order by the crown after the French
and Indian war for the American colonists to stop expanding westward into any Indigenous
controlled territory. This was ordered by the crown because the aftermath of the French and
Indian War left the American colonies/British with a large chunk of land that was once controlled
by the French just West of the East Coast. This land after American control would often be
settled by the Americans, which was very unpopular with the Indigenous peoples who had lived
there for hundreds of generations before the Americans (no way). The Indigenous peoples told
them to stop, and as such, the crown ordered the Proclamation of 1763, which was super
unpopular with the Americans. THE THING TO NOTE about this order is that it caused tensions

[PAGE 30]
between the Americans and the British, the Americans, who were basically fully autonomous at
this point were just pissed at the fact the British government and parliament would constantly
butt (Butt ahahahah 🤓) into American affairs, imposing rules on them when the Americans
were fully independent from the British many times. (imagine like a fully grown college student
having a curfew imposed by their parents when they live a like 5 hour flight away from their
parents) (bro sounds like my mom 💀 yeah you gotta get that sorted 😬 m an life sucks 😔) (it
really do be like that)
White Encroachment pg 110 The proclamation failed to keep the colonists in check, and further
attempts to restrict their movements only ended in failure. Colonists kept pushing further and
further into the Ohio Valley. It’s also really hard to believe, but indigenous people were not very
happy about this.
Sugar, Currency, Stamp Acts pg 110 These are all laws passed to try and gain economic and
political control of the Colonies. All together, these laws increased taxes, gave more political
control to the crown (i.e actually dealing with smuggling), and stopped the use of Paper
currencies. The Stamp act placed a tax on every printed good in the colonies. These acts were
not received well, as they were seen as a precedent for Royal Authorities taking over the
colonies. Also they didn’t want to pay taxes, which is kind of fair.
Regulator Movement pg 110 A small scale civil war broke out as a result of the Regulator
Movement in North Carolina. The Regulators were farmers of the Carolina upcountry who
organized in opposition to the high taxes that local sheriffs collected. The western countries
were badly underrepresented in the colonial assembly, and the Regulators failed to win their
redress there. Finally, they armed themselves and began resisting by force. To suppress the
revolt, Governor WIlliam Tryon formed a group of militiamen, mostly from the eastern counties,
who beat a group of 2,000 Regulators in the Battle of Alamance. Nine on each side were killed,
and many wounded. Afterwards, six Regulators were hanged for treason. Conflicts like these
were common. The British policies about taxes and stuff eventually counterbalanced these inner
conflicts.
Paxton Boys 110 Paxton boys were a group of people from western PENNSYLVANIA that
harassed Philadelphia with demands for relief from colonial taxes and for money to defend
themselves. They were declared outlaws earlier by the Pennsylvania government after an
unauthorized attack on a neighboring indigenous tribe. Instead of surrendering, they armed
themselves and prepared to attack. Stopped by Benjamin Franklin and the government by
meeting demands.
Postwar Depression pg 110 After the French and Indian War, economy go die. The economy
was booming due to Britain’s investment in the colonies, which stopped after they won the war.
In addition, people feared new taxes would ruin the Colonial Economy permanently, because
being taxed is very bad apparently.

[PAGE 31]
Political Consequences of the Grenville Program pg 111 The Grenville Program was a program
set up by the British government. This program was basically a set of taxes that would be
imposed specifically on the American colonies, which included The Sugar and Stamp taxes,
both of which were massive on the American colonies. Now take a wild guess, what do you
think American colonists hated the most? That’s right: being treated like a child and also,
TAXES! Why did these taxes happen? You might ask: the French and Indian war was a costly
war that was fought by both the British and the American colonists on the same side. Despite
the camaraderie on the battlefield, it was very apparent that the British economy was in utter
shambles after the victory over the French, so to fix this, the British colonies levied taxes over
the American colonies, thinking that because the war was fought there, it would make sense
and not completely infuriate the Americans that they were being taxed. The Americans were in
fact, completely infuriated by the taxes.
Effects of the Stamp Act 112 The Colonists in America were PISSED over the Stamp Act, as
they saw it as a tax that they had no control over. In addition, since paper was a very common
item used in the colonies, this mean this tax would apply to a lot of things like Legal Documents,
Licenses, and printed documents. Colonists were afraid that the Stamp Act would set a
precedent for more goods to be taxed.
Virginia Resolves pg 113 Patrick Henry introduced a set of resolutions declaring that Americans
possessed the same rights as the English, especially the right to be taxed only by their own
representatives. Virginians should pay no taxes except those voted by the Virginia assembly,
and that anyone advocating the right of Parliament to tax Virginians should be deemed an
enemy of the colony. The House of Burgesses defeated the most extreme of these resolutions.
However, all of them were printed and circulated as the “Virginia Resolves”, implying that the
people were more militant than they were.
Sons of Liberty pg 113 A Group of Colonists who protested against Britain’s taxes in violent
ways, such as threatening tax collectors and attacking those who supported the British. In
addition, the Sons of Liberty enforced Boycotts through force.
Parliament Retreats pg 113 After much resistance to the Stamp act, a new prime minister, the
Marquis of Rockingham attempted to appease both the Americans and British by repealing the
very unpopular Stamp act, but also because the British thought that the Americans wouldn’t
follow any rules now that the Stamp act was repealed, Marquis was forced to implement the
Declaratory Act, which gave Parliament absolute authority over the colonies. This was received
pretty well at the start in the American colonies, with people celebrating the repeal of the Stamp
Act and more or less ignoring the fact that the Parliament now had 100% control over the
American colonies.
Mutiny Act pg 114 - THe Mutiny/Quartering Act of 1765 required colonists to provide quarters
(shelter) and Supplies to British Troops in America without compensation. People had already
been doing this, but they got mad due to the fact that it was mandatory now (i feel that)

[PAGE 32]
Internal and External Taxes pg 114 British people were STILL unhappy with the way that
Rockingham (the guy that repealed the stamp act) handled the situation, saying that the
government had basically only appealed to the interest of some random hillbillies and
merchants across the Atlantic, and the King was forced to put Rockingham out of the position of
Prime Minister, bringing a guy named Charles Townshend into power. He immediately did 2 big
things to the American colonies: 1. He disbanded the New York assembly, and 2. He brought
back…you guessed it; TAXES! How did William defend himself to the colonists? He argued that
Benjamin Franklin had once brought up the idea of “Internal and external” taxes. This implied
taxes that were placed on the colonies from the exterior from the Parliament and crown, and
taxes that were placed on the colonies from the interior from the colonies themselves. Uh. The
colonies didn’t buy it.
Colonial Boycotts pg 115 Boston merchants, accustomed to loose enforcement of the navigation
Acts and also angry that the new commission was trying to stop the very lucrative smuggling
trade, were indignant and took the lead in organizing another boycott. In 1768, the merchants of
Philadelphia and New York joined them, and later some southern merchants and planters also
agreed to participate. Colonists boycotted British goods subject to the Townshend Duties, and
throughout the colonies, American domestic products became fashionable, while English
luxuries fell from favor. Later in 1767(wtf we were just in 1768???) Charles Townshend suddenly
died, and the duties of dealing with colonial resistance fell to the new PM, Lord North(What a
name). Hoping to break the nonimportation agreement and divide the colonists, Lord North
secured the repeal of all the Townshend Duties except the tax on tea…(I wonder what this is
leading to)
Competition and Scarce Employment pg 115 They have this here, but they don’t really say shit
about it. The whole part of the textbook that this is talking about talks about how the British were
heavily disliked and discriminated against in Boston.
I guess there’s a part about how British Soldiers aren’t paid a lot, so they try to find jobs
to do while off duty, which competes with colonists. (This is probably it but its TWO
WHOLE SENTENCES)
Sam Adams pg 116 The leading figure in fomenting public outrage over the Boston Massacre
was none other than Samual Adams, the most effective radical in the colonies. Adams was born
in 1722 and was somewhat older than other leaders of colonial protest. As a member of an
earlier generation with strong ties to New England’s Puritan past, he was particularly inclined to
view public events in stern moral terms. A failure in business, he became a persistent voice
expressing outrage at British oppression. He argued that England had become a mass of sin
and corruption, and that only in America did public virtue survive(um…I got bad news buddy…)
IN 1772, he proposed the creation of a “committee of correspondence” in Boston to publicize
the grievances against England throughout the colony. Adams became its first head. Other
colonies followed this, and a loose network of political organizations grew up that kept the spirit
of dissent alive through the 1770s.

[PAGE 33]
England’s Balanced Constitution pg 117 England had a very balanced constitution (I have such
a way with words) (Teach me your ways!) . The system worked like this: there were 3 parts of
society, the Monarchy, the Aristocracy, and the Common People. With this system, everybody
would be easily and equally represented (In my opinion, there are many flaws, such as the fact
that the Monarchy, which would make up literally 0.00001% if not less of the population would
literally have the same power in government as 92ish% of the population, but I digress). Why
did this system come to fruition? Well, the English were very infatuated by the idea that people
were naturally evil and corrupt and selfish. To combat this, it was thought that a government
would be needed to protect each other from one’s evil, corrupt, and selfish acts. However, there
would also need to be a way to keep the government themselves from being evil, corrupt, and
selfish on top of that, so that’s how the system was made. How did this affect the Americas?
Well the Americans saw this system and were thinking to themselves: we do plenty for the
British! We make a large portion of money for them, why don’t we get a seat in this special
system? This is unfair! So yes, this is just tying into more American grievances for the British.
Virtual vs Actual Representation pg 117 So basically, the idea of Virtual Representation in
England was the idea that all members of the Parliament in England were acting on behalf of
the entire British empire. This idea led to the entirety of the English parliament basically being
nothing but full white English aristocrats, no common folk, no Indian peoples, no Irish peoples,
no American colonists, nobody of African descent, no Australians, noone from North Africa or
Islamic world. This also enraged the American colonists, since they believed the Parliament was
in need of Actual representation from American colonists to talk for American interests, since it
was proven that oftentimes Parliament did not know what the American people wanted.
Revolutionary Discourse pg 118 - Colonies also kept revolutionary sentiment alive through
writing and talking. Dissenting leaflets, pamphlets, and books were spread throughout the
colonies. In towns and cities, men gathered everywhere, especially in taverns(drunk ass
bitches) to discuss politics and express their growing distaste for English policies. The rise of
revolutionary ideology was not a result of the ideas of intellectuals, but also a product of a social
process in which ordinary people heard, discussed, and absorbed new ideas. The popular
anger lying just beneath the surface was also visible in occasional acts of rebellion. In 1772,
angry residents of Rhode Island boarded the Britiwsh(Leaving the typo in) schooner Gaspée ,
set it ablaze, and sank it in Narragansett Bay. The British response to this further angered
American opinion. Instead of putting the accused attackers on trail in colonial courts, the British
sent a special commission to America with power to send the defendants back to England for
trial. What finally revived the revolutionary fervor of the 1760s was a new act of parliament–one
that the English government had expected to be relatively uncontroversial. It involved the
business of selling tea…(Oh boy)
The Tea Act pg 118 - The Tea act made the East India Company franchise its tea out, and
made it a lot cheaper but taxed tea due to the East India Company not having to pay customs.
People saw this as the government creating a monopoly on tea with a mandatory tax tacked on
to it. This outrage would lead to massive boycotts, and overall discontent in the colonies. This
would lead to………

[PAGE 34]
Boston Tea Party pg 119 - THE BOSTON TEA PARTY!!!!!! On December 16 1773, People
dressed up as Indigenous Mohawks (so they had a scapegoat if shit went wrong), raided tea
ships and threw the Tea into the Harbor. This would lead to a ripple effect throughout the
colonies with people doing very similar things all over the colonies.
This would lead to King George the III creating the Coercive Acts to reign in the Colonists’ wild
behavior
Coercive Acts pg 119 - Man these things are leading into each other! The Coercive (or
Intolerable if you’re AMERICAN 🦅) Acts, along with the Quebec Act (which gave a government
to Canada and recognized the rights of Roman Catholics, who were really disliked still for some
reason, something something Church of Rome) were passed. God the grammar here have fun
reading that.The coercive Acts took away the self-governance and the rights that came with that
of Massachusetts and Massachusetts specifically for some reason. (I would tell you more IF
THE TEXTBOOK TOLD ME) From my beautiful research, the coercive acts basically imposed
strict control of Boston harbors because THAT is where the Boston Tea Party happened. It also
restricted democratic town meetings, making British officials immune to prosecution, and also
forced colonists to house British soldiers (But Quartering act???). As you can see, it made the
Americans pretty mad. Youch!
Consequences pg 119 - People were very not happy with the Coercive Acts, and extended the
Boycotts to all British goods like tea and textiles, and also the First Continental Congress was
held in order to air grievances to England
First Continental Congress pg 122 - In 1772, a certain Sam Adams called for delegates from all
the colonies to hold the first Continental Congress. Everybody was able to make it, besides
Georgia, but would be present in later congresses. The first congress was held in Carpenter’s
Hall in Philadelphia, where they rejected a plan to be under British authority as a colonial union.
They then endorsed a “statement of grievances” which was basically a paper complaining about
the differences between the moderates and extremists of the delegates (so basically they
recognized their differences in the subject of English rule). Third, they also planned for the
future, approving a plan to start militarizing in preparation for the possible attack of British troops
in Boston. Lastly, they agreed to stop ANY AND ALL trade between the American colonies and
Great Britain. They also agreed to meet up next Spring. So yeah. The first congress. Wahoo!
The Conciliatory Propositions pg 124 - During the winter, the Parliament in London debated
proposals for appeasing the colonists. Lord Chatham(William Pitt), the former prime minister,
urged the withdrawal of troops from America. Edmund Burke called for the repeal of the
Coercive Acts, but their efforts were in vain. Lord North won approval early in 1775 for a series
of measures known as the Conciliatory Propositions. Parliament now proposed that the
colonies, instead of being directly taxed by Parliament, would tax themselves at Parliament’s
demand. With this offer, Lord North hoped to divide the American moderates, who he thought

[PAGE 35]
represented the views of the majority. But it was too little and too late, for it did not reach
America until after the first shots of war had been fired.
General Thomas Gage pg 125 - In Boston, General Thomas Gage, commanding the British
garrison, knew of the military preparations in the countryside. He considered his army too small
to do anything until reinforcements arrived. He resisted the advice of less cautious officers, who
thought that the Americans wouldn’t dare to actually fight, and that they would back down
quickly before any show of British force. Gage was still hesitant when he received orders from
England to arrest Sam Adams and John Hancock, known to be in Lexington. But when Gage
heard that the minutemen had stored a large supply of gunpowder in Concord, he finally
decided to act. On the night of April 18th, 1775, he sent a group of about 1,000 soldiers out from
Boston on the road to Lexington. He intended to surprise the colonials and seize the supplies.
(Spoiler, it failed; “THE BRITISH ARE COMING”)
The Revolution Begins pg 126 - It was not immediately clear to either side that the skirmishes at
Lexington and Concord were the first battles of a war. Many saw them as another example of
tensions that had been afflicting Anglo-American relations for years. But whether they
recognized it at the time or not, the British and the Americans had taken a decisive step. The
War for Independence had begun.(Insert patriotic music)
Common Sense pg 130 - It’s italicized in the textbook, I don’t know why I’m wheezing. Oh nvm
its the title of a pamphlet thats what you do with the titles of stuff ian. . Common Sense was
written by Thomas Paine, who had emigrated from England to America fifteen months before.
He spent much of his life living in poverty, and he was ostracized because he openly ridiculed
Christianity. His pamphlets influenced the developing ideals of the United States. Much like Sam
Adams, he failed in almost all aspects of his life, but found tremendous success as a
Revolutionary. His Common Sense helped change the American outlook towards the war. Paine
wanted to turn the anger of Americans away from the specific parliamentary measures they
were resisting and redirected it toward what he considered to be the root of the problem: the
English constitution. He argued that it wasn’t enough for Americans to continue blaming their
problems on particular ministers or even the Parliament. It was the king, and the system that
allowed him to rule, that was to blame. Therefore, he said it was common sense(Now I get it) for
Americans to break from a government that could produce a king as corrupt as George III. He
also said that England was no more fit to rule the American continent, that a satellite was fit to
rule the sun.(Did satellites exist back then???) ( A satellite refers to objects that revolve around
planets, this terms been around for a while to refer to rocks n stuff that surround other planets)
The Declaration of Independence pg 130 - In 1776, a Declaration of Independence was written
by a 33 year old Thomas Jefferson with help from Ben Frank and John Adams. The declaration
honestly didn’t say anything new or heavily change the way that American life was, but it most
importantly formalized the Independence of the American colonies (obviously they still had to
fight the British though). These ideas came from town meetings, artisan and militia
organizations, County officials, juries, and the Sons/Daughters of Liberty, along with colonial
assemblies. Basically any ideas that were created by people who supported American

[PAGE 36]
patriotism would end up or at least be considered for being on the Declaration. A lot of ideas
were also inspired by the works of John Locke, a very popular philosopher at the time, such as
the idea that everybody was allowed the rights to “life”, “liberty”, and “pursuit of happiness”
(property but it doesn’t sound as cool to the average guy ). The declaration also had some
PRETTY hypocritical claims though, such as the idea that “all men are created equal”, which
was NOT reflected in the treatment of slaves, or the fact that slavery even existed at all, not to
mention that “all men” doesn’t entail women, or the fact that Jews were still discriminated
against, or the fact that after the American colonies became independent Quakers and
Anglicans were treated pretty badly, as were British loyalists. So by “All Men” it really is just
saying Patriot Free White Males. Nonetheless, the ideas in the Declaration of Independence
would make their way around the world, inspiring the French revolution as well.
Divided Americans pg 131 - After the Declaration of Independence, the colonies began to call
themselves “states”(wowee) – A reflection of their belief that each province was now, in some
ways, a separate and sovereign entity. Even before the Declaration, colonies began to operate
independently. The Parliament in London had suspended representative government in
America, but it did not end colonial self-government, instead, it increased it. The colonial
assemblies continued to meet, now free from imperial law. After the Declaration of
Independence, former colonies marked their own independence by writing formal constitutions
for themselves. By 1781, most of the new states had produced these constitutions, which
established republican governments. Some of these constitutions stood for many decades
without significant change. However, at the national level, the process of forming a government
was more halting and less successful. For a while, Americans were uncertain if they even
wanted a real national government. The Continental Congress had not been much more than a
coordinating mechanism, and virtually everyone considered the individual colonies / states the
real centers of authority. Thus began a tradition that Americans would continue for more than
two centuries: balance the commitment to state and local autonomy against the need for some
centralized authority.
Articles of Confederation pg 131 - OK! As we read more about the Independence of America
and the founding of its government, we will find ourselves looking at a LOT of important papers
that we will mix up on. Let’s get this straight: The Declaration was the American colonies giving
reasons for the American colonies to be an independent country . The Articles of Confederation
were a set of papers that confirmed the congress as the government for the newly independent
United States, but would also make it so that each state still held a majority of power in their
own matters, so the Congress was actually quite weak and had not much say over the entirety
of the colonies, it just so happened that oftentimes the colonies would agree with whatever the
Congress would say.
Financing the War pg 132 - Now that the Revolution had started, the need for money to finance
a war was high. So what did the American government do? What any good government does
during wartime: print a ton of paper money. Paper continental dollars IMMEDIATELY plummeted
to being worthless, and prices for all goods skyrocketed in the colonies (in terms of continental
dollars, which is why George Washington’s troops starved at Valley Forge in 1777, because they

[PAGE 37]
basically only had continental dollars). The American merchants were actually so fed up with the
continental dollar actually, that the American merchants and farmers began selling more to the
British, who had coins that were actually worth so much. Congress tried OVER and OVER again
to try and implement a good system to finance their war efforts, but in the end they failed and
had to resort to borrowing from other nations (France).
General George Washington pg 132 - General George Washington was a veteran General from
the French and Indian war, sporting a grand total of…no notable victories in the war :| (HE
TOOK A MASSIVE L TOO AT FORT DUQUESNE) (George “L” Washington) , and on top of that
in that war he was more known for his defeat at the battle of Fort Necessity. Nevertheless, he
was one of the more successful colonial generals in the war and the fact he managed to
organize and effectively command his group of ragtag colonial troops was enough to convince
the American congress that he was fit to be the main general for the Colonial, no Continental
Army. Some more details because people care about that: George Washington was a 43 (at the
time of the start of the war) year old Virginian Planter-Aristocrat(so basically he was a planter,
and he got rich off it, surprise surprise). What mattered the most however, was the fact that
George Washington was admired by the Patriots and was a popular general for the war, and a
strong and early advocate for American Independence.
Original George Washington Challenger Commercial
Foreign Assistance pg 132 - The Americans received a lot of, guns(real), and resources(real),
from foreign influences like the French (Marquis de Lafayette) and the Prussians(Baron von
Steuben), giving Washington a real army with like guns and stuff. To fight. In a war. They ended
up with a respectable army of 10,000 men that ended up doing pretty good in the war all things
consider
American Advantages pg 133 - Americans were a lot more motivated to fight the war compared
to the British, meaning they had a morale advantage. In addition, the Americans received a lot
of resources from foreign powers like France. The Biggest Advantage of them All™ (Dodge
Challenger) was the fact that the British were stupid as hell and didn’t jump the colonists at the
early game and instead spent time trying to farm as Lee Sin. (They didn’t immediately resort to
full force against the colonists, giving them time to organize, get resources, and figure out the
whole war thing)
Bunker Hill pg 134 - After the British withdrawal from Concord and Lexington in April of 1775,
American forces besieged the army of General Thomas Gage in Boston. The Patriots suffered
severe casualties in the Battle of Bunker Hill on June 17, 1775, and were ultimately driven from
their position there. But they inflicted much greater losses on the enemy than the enemy
inflicted on them. In fact, the British suffered their heaviest casualties of the entire war at Bunker
Hill. After the battle, the Patriots continued to tighten the siege. By the first months of 1776, the
British had concluded that Boston was not the best place to wage war. Not only was it the center
of the most Anti-British region of the colonies, it was also tactically indefensible. By late winter,
Patriot forces had surrounded the city and occupied strategic positions on the heights. On
March 17th, 1776, the British departed Boston.

[PAGE 38]
Invasion of Canada pg 135 - Americans in the Americas realized there were British people in
Canada, so they invaded Canada. They also hoped to gain the support of Canadians for their
war efforts. Benedict Arnold and Richard Montgomery tried to take Quebec, but they both failed
and Montgomery’s dead now. Congress tried the diplomacy approach with Ben Franklin, but that
didn’t work out either, and that’s why Canada is its own nation.
Salutary Neglect - not in book - It’s not in the book, but Ms. Bellas said this was a key APUSH
term. Salutary Neglect refers to the (old) British policy of being kind of lax with the enforcement
of parliamentary laws in the colonies, meaning there was a lot of independence in the colonies.
Of course this didn’t last forever, but it WAS how the colonies were run, and kind of set the
standard for the colonists there. (which explains why they got so mad over like, 3 taxes)
Week #4 ( 9 2-185 (something like that) )
British Take New York pg 136 - The British Take New York, taking Long Island and Manhattan,
forcing the Americans across the Delaware River to Pennsylvania. The British then took their
Christmas break n stuff.
Britain’s Strategy pg 136 - The British aimed to split the Colonies in two, with Howe(general guy)
moving North from NYC up the Hudson to Albany, while another would come south from
Canada to meet him there. Howe would end up ditching this plan and just decided to jump
Philadelphia, which he did with ease
Patriot Victory at Saratoga pg 137 Major turning point in the Revolutionary war, America won a
battle in Saratoga led by George Washington. Uh I’m typing this up on Thursday so like, not a
lot of time 😬
British Blunders pg 137 - The British messed up big time due to the fact that they are dumb as
hell. For example WIlliam Howe ditched his Northern Campaign and refused to finish off the
Colonists at Pennsylvania and allowed the Americans to set up and recover at VALLEY

[PAGE 39]
FORGE . Some believe that Howe was paid off to throw the semis due to to financial gain, others
believe that he was alcoholic, stuff like that.
Also the Howe really didn’t take the war too seriously so there was that.
Divisions in the Iroquois Confederacy pg 138 - During the American revolution, The Iroquois
confederacy did try its best to remain neutral and not pick a side despite the overwhelming
majority of the Iroquois Confederacy wanting to support the British war effort. This did not last,
as members of the Iroquois began to break the rules and to follow the British into battle. One
important thing to note here is that Joseph Brant and Mary Brant, a Mohawk sibling duo, did a
lot to convince other Iroquois members (I am referring to groups, not individual people) to join
the effort, which included the Seneca and Cayuga groups.
READING QUIZ#3 INFO ENDS HERE
READING QUIZ#4 INFO STARTS HERE
Militia Diplomats pg 139 - The “Militia Diplomats” here do not refer to actual Militiamen of the
American military, but rather the diplomats sent by the American government to convince other
nations, particularly France and Holland to fund and also help the American war effort. The 2
famous people to remember here are John Adams and Ben Franklin
Pivotal French Aid pg 140 - Basically, France big help America. The important part of note is the
contribution that Benjamin Franklin made to convince the French. John Adams, who was the
first diplomat sent to France was having a fair bit of trouble convincing the King in France to
help the American war effort, so Benjamin Franklin was called in, and his popularity not only
with the King but also basically everybody in France allowed him to quickly get the support that
the US needed to aid them during the war, including money, basic supplies and also navy
support.
Revolutionary Consequences of the Southern Campaign page 140 - The British believed that
making headway in the South would be the more optimal plan as it was heard that support for
the British was especially high there and Loyalists would greet the British with open arms. They
were in fact, very wrong, and Loyalist support for the British was not that high in the South, and
as the British attempted to even move to the South they faced heavy opposition in the form of
many small battles. So where does the “Revolutionary Consequences” part come from?
Civilians were ALSO involved in this conflict, and many Civilians found themselves with British
soldiers in their backyards, giving them reason to take up arms and basically form a militia unit
themselves. Whether they liked it or not, war in their backyards, no matter the outcome, would
result in their land being wrecked, so there was a reason to protect it.

[PAGE 40]
Nathanael Greene pg 141 - Natanael GREENE was a Quaker general from Rhode Island, and
was considered to be the 2nd most competent general in the Revolution (aside from
Washington). Greene would fight the British in the Carolinas and inflict crippling defeats on the
British, effectively stopping Cornwallis from being a threat in the Carolinas due to the fact he had
lost like all his men. Bro got dunked on pretty hard ngl fr fr on ja!
Yorktown ( B attle of Yorktown ) pg 142 - So as Ryan just told you, General Cornwallis was on the
run. His army was a tired, small, and honestly dead group of men. Word got out somehow that
Cornwallis’s forces were looking to go move North into Virginia to retreat and head home, but
George Washington and his new friend from France Jean Baptiste de Rochambeau set up a
trap that would have Washington and Rochambeau join General Lafayette who was already
stationed in Virginia cut off Cornwallis’s escape via land, while Admiral Francois Joseph de
Grasse cut off the sea from Cornwallis’s army. After the trap had been laid out and successfully
executed, Cornwallis was forced to surrender him and his 7,000 or so men to the Americans.
Treaty of Paris pg 143 - The MOST IMPORTANT Treaty of Paris relative to this unit, this treaty
basically had Britain recognize the US as an independent nation. This is the easy part, the
harder part to understand is why it took so long for the French and Americans and British to
agree on this. Apparently the SPANISH also have something to do with this, lemme explain it:
Spain for a while had wanted Gibraltar (putting up some cover for my brothers) back from the
British, keep in mind, the Spanish at the time were BIGTIME French allies. What happened was
actually pretty simple after this, the Spanish and French simply just agreed to end hostilities
towards the British (see how long a French and British peace treaty lasts LOL). So yeah, that’s
why it took so long for the Treaty to be signed, because Spain was just being a little bitch.
The loyalists’ Plight pg 143 - Cool, the Americans had won their independence, NOW WHAT?
Well for one, most Patriots are pretty happy, everything they had been working towards the past
decade finally came to fruition and the American confederation was a newly founded nation. But
you seem to forget some of the bad things that also ensued, for example, loyalists to the British
crown were heavily harassed, from just being left out of just about everything to being physically
assaulted to being tarred and feathered, thousands and basically every Loyalist fled the newly
founded confederation for any non-American confederation controlled territory, British Canada
amongst the most popular destination.
Weakening of the Anglican Church pg 144 - Anglican church members were actually a large
portion of the Loyalist population, and because of this and also other complicated reasons the
Anglican church became disestablished and basically went to ruin. Many churches didn’t have
their clergymen anymore, and because so many Loyalists left for Canada, most churches also
just didn’t have members. So yeah, in terms of religions, Anglicans were definitely the
Revolution’s big losers.
African American Desire for Freedom pg 145 - We have not discussed African Americans and
their role in the revolution, and it’s important to note here that early on, the British offered
freedom for slaves who joined the British cause. Not only because it would prove to be an easy

[PAGE 41]
source of troops, but also because by making slaves leave their masters, the American
economy would go to shit and general chaos would ensue, which is a perfect recipe for taking
the American colonies.
Note: Join British Army = No more slavery included Lord Dunmore’s Proclamation of 1775
Strengthening of the Catholic Church pg 145 - The Roman Catholic church got a lot of power
during the revolution, why is this? Mainly because the French, who supplied and were major
allies for the Americans were primarily Roman Catholics and also because the Vatican had
offered a Catholic system and hierarchy for the Catholic church in the Americas, making the
Catholic church significantly stronger in the American colonies than it had before.
Tension Between Liberty and Slavery pg 146 - The Revolution and it’s ideas of liberty and
freedom REALLY brought into question the role of slavery in American society. Many argued
that it didn’t make sense for a country that would pride itself so much on liberty and freedom to
be keeping hundreds of thousands of innocent people in bondage. What was the result of the
argument? In the end, the American South did not want to lose their main source of free labor in
exchange for some moral dilemma, and also because so many feared a world in which free
African Americans lived alongside free White Americans.
Taking sides pg 146 - Indigenous peoples found it hard to stay neutral in the war, as it was
apparent to them that the British, who in the past had tried to prevent conflict and expansion into
their territory were a clear side to root and fight for. The idea of the British granting the
Indigenous peoples not only their freedom but also land back was too good to pass up (I
wouldn’t pass it up either). How did the revolution affect the Indigenous people in the American
colonies? Well, since there was no longer a British government to prevent the American
colonists from barging into Indigenous land and taking it unfairly, it sucked a lot for the
Indigenous people :( They soon found a lot of their land being taken up for no reason other than
for the sake of expansion and economic growth for the American confederation and later US.
Growing Divisions Among the Indians pg 147 - After the revolution ended in American victory,
the Indigenous people found it hard to create confederacies and large allied groups like they
used to in order to fight back against American expansion. Take for example the Shawnee
people, who had attempted to fight back and take back the Kentucky land which they had lost to
American settlers. Their effort drew in 0 allies and were defeated.
Women of the Army pg 147 - Women also took part in the war, as they normally do in most wars
(but history always leaves them out). Many women would take part in joining their husbands to
war, carrying themselves to camp and working as logistics organizers and workers. Some wives
would also dress up as men in order to aid the American soldiers on the battlefield directly, while
some would take up their husbands gear once they fell in battle to fight for the American patriots
themselves. Martha Washington for example, was a common occurrence wherever George
Washington went, and was even present at Valley Forge.

[PAGE 42]
Calls for Women’s rights pg 148 - After the revolution, a growing number of women began to call
for women’s rights, after all, the new American flag did offer liberty and freedom, but only to
men. In fact, things got worse for women. Unmarried women were still allowed some basic
rights like not being owned by their husbands (but they were basically owned by their fathers :/
), they could own property and all that, but married women were basically 100% property to their
husbands, they had no right to their children, property, or bodies for that matter. When Abigail
Adams famously wrote to her husband to “remember the ladies”, she wasn’t referring to the idea
of giving women more rights, but rather giving them more rights in marriages, since being a
married woman was that tough.
A Strengthened Patriarchal Structure pg 149 - Uh basically everything here can be just
paraphrased from the term above ^^^, but in short, America is a very patriarchal society, and
fathers had just about everything, husbands basically owned their wives, yada yada.
New Patterns of Trade pg 149 - Because the English wanted to choke the American economy
when the war started, the English boycotted American trade, and kept it that way until a lot later.
As a result, more American manufactured everyday goods like furniture were starting to be
produced domestically, leading to a change in trade, with many American made products finding
their ways into American homes, rather than the original British goods.
Importance of Civic Virtue pg 150 - As the new government in America slowly came together,
everyone figured out the importance of having the people be the source of power pretty quickly.
The success of a government based on the people relied on the nature of its people, so the idea
of a few rich people running the government was feared (HUH), and the average citizen would
ideally be an independent Land Owner.
Another part of the new American Ideology was the idea that “All men are created equal”, which
in this case meant something like a Meritocracy, where people’s skills and talents mattered
more than their social status coming from their birth or whatever. The idea was that some
people would be richer than others, but they would have to earn their success.
Persistent Inequality pg 150 Of course this was never going to be the case as there was a
sizable amount of people who didn’t own property. Also slightly more importantly, there was a lot
of Slaves and Women who weren’t included in having the rights of a Citizen. Native Americans
were often exploited or eradicated, and Opportunity was always more available to those who
were richer or had better conditions at Birth.
Written Constitutions and Strong Legislatures pg 150 - There was not yet a real written
constitution or form of government, so the Americans go to work doing just that. A constitution
would be needed, but that will not be discussed now because textbook awesome B). However,
Legislatures popped up all over each state, and governors who were still heavily tied and
involved with the English government were not allowed to dismiss legislature, along with this, 2
branches of government were created, Legislature and Executive branches, that way power

[PAGE 43]
would be distributed a lot more evenly amongst the Americans government, and not just in 1 all
powerful branch like the English parliament.
Shift to Strong Executives pg 150 - The new system of taking lots of power from governors
resulted in unhappy governors and unhappy people who were involved in the executive branch,
and in 1780 the Massachusetts Constitution gave the governor a lot more power, giving him a
fixed salary, job security, and power to veto over legislature.
Statute of Religious Liberty pg 151 - Statute of Religious Liberty was a paper written by Thomas
Jefferson which completely separated church from state in Virginia. This was widely due to the
idea that many Americans had that the state should not give so much power to the church, and
even if the church were to still be part of the government, that they would not hold so much
power.
Limited Power of the National Government pg 152 - National government was WEAK! States
had a majority of the power and although congress had access to a lot on paper (issuing and
borrowing money, military, foreign relationships), it still didn’t have the one thing that a
government really needs, MONEY! This was because taxes that congress approved of would
have to also go through State legislatures, and basically all of em would say NAH YOU AIN’T
TAXIN SHIT FOO. Oh also congress couldn’t draft troops, that was up to State legislature.
Postwar Disputes with Britain and Spain pg 152 - The grievances with Britain were not over
however, as actually, many British soldiers were still left in the Americas despite the agreement
to withdraw all British troops. The British also did not give back the slaves they freed to the
American south, which doesn't make sense, considering once a person is free they shouldn’t be
treated like property. John Adams was called up to get a British minister on American soil, but
could not convince the British government to do so, so yeah, basically, America and Britain still
don't like each other, no surprise there.
Not much about Spain other than it says that Britain and Spain could not live up to terms with
the Treaty of Paris.
THe Ordinances of 1784 and 1785 pg 154 - Ordinances of 1784 and 1785, this one is TRICKY.
But all you really need to know for the first ordinance is that Thomas Jefferson divvied up the
Western territory that had not yet become American states into 10 territories that could all
petition for their statehood, as LONG AS, the territory had the same or larger amount of people
in the smallest state in the US at the time. This was done to avoid creating SECOND class
citizens and also to include new settlements in the Appalachian mountains in the political
structure of the nation.
Now for the NEXT ordinance in 1785, this one would create a system for surveying and selling
land. Territory North of the Ohio River would be surveyed and be marked into neat little towns
with 36 identical sections, 4 of which would belong to the American government, and 1 section
being used for a public school no matter what. Apart from that, sections could be sold off to
individuals for anything over a dollar, which is about 32$ today.

[PAGE 44]
The Grid pg 154 - Sounds cool, but the Grid refers to the system of how land was divided up for
human use. Compared to other NERDS who divided up land based on things like RESOURCES
or NATURAL BOUNDARIES, The Grid system split up land into… a grid. So like, if you got bad
land well then screw you better luck next time. This system became the standard, and became
the model form many Towns and Cities (I LOVE GRIDS MY FAVORITE STREETS 1st 2nd AND
3rd STREET)
Northwest Ordinance pg 154 - So if you remember, Thomas Jefferson created 10 separate
territories North of the Ohio river, and people were not down with this idea, settlements were too
small to hold 10 separate territories, yada yada. So instead in 1787, another ordinance was sent
out, combining all 10 territories into one Northwest Territory, which would eventually split into 3
and then 5 territories. Also, now the requirement was 60,000 people for statehood, not some
weird number dependent on the current smallest state.
Battle of Fallen Timbers pg 155 - So while all this Westward expansion is going on, who are the
biggest losers? You guessed it, the Indigenous peoples already living there! In what is now
Miami Ohio (NOT FLORIDA, OHIO, THERE ARE MYAAMIA PEOPLE LIVING THERE, THAT’S
WHERE WE GET THE WORD MIAMI FROM) hosted a certain guy named Little Turtle, who
was an accomplished Miami warrior and in 1790 led 2 successful campaigns against American
troops and managed to protect his land from American settlers for a little bit, all up until the
Americans brought in more reinforcements. Despite this, the Myaamia people still kind of came
out on top (?), since although they lost their land, the treaty signed by the Myaamia people and
the American government came to an agreement that from that day onward, in order for an
Indigenous group of people to lose their land to the Americans, it had to be done with consent
from both parties. (People like Andrew Jackson would later find workarounds to this system via
rampant violence). This treaty would be called the Treaty of Greenville.
Postwar Depression pg 155 - Uh war expensive. America fight war. America no money. America
taxes people to pay off big debt T M . This will not lead to unforeseeable consequences surely.
That’s literally all I need to say :| It's not that hard to understand man.
Political Disputes over Economic Issues pg 156 - A group of American politicians (Robert
Morris, a young Alexander Hamilton, James Madison amongst this group along with others)
brought up the idea of an impost which was basically a 5% tax on all goods, which uh, as
expected, NOBODY agreed to.
Shay’s Rebellion pg 156 - In short, people were being thrown into jail for not paying taxes. This
heavily affected farmers, who were pretty poor. Daniel Shays, who is a farmer, doesn't like this,
and he leads a group of 1200ish dudes into Massachusetts and they fight some American
troops, with 2 farmers dying and 20-odd more injured. The MAIN POINT here is that it brings up
the concerns of the Articles of Government and also the fact that states had way too much
power, since these policies on taxes were heavily levied by the Massachusetts government.
Shay’s rebellion on the surface didn’t do much, but its impact was large and would heavily affect
the US government system for centuries to come.

[PAGE 45]
A Weak Central Government pg 160 - not typing this again in length :/ but basically America
had a weak central government since power was mostly in the hands of the state governments.
This proved to have issues like Shay’s rebellion here and would lead to 2 separate political
parties forming in the newly founded American Confederation.
Supporters of a Strong National Government pg 160 - there was a LOT of pressure for a
stronger central government, as can be seen with the issues that the Society of Cincinnati had
with the fact that congress had not paid back their pensions (congress has no money
remember).
Alexander Hamilton pg 161 - How does a bastard, orphan, son of a whore and a scotsman,
dropped in the middle of a forgotten spot in the Caribbean…yeah you get the reference (no
way)
A political genius and lawyer, Hamilton grew up in the Caribbean and had been unhappy with
the Articles of Confederation, and called for a National Convention to overhaul the whole thing.
He allied with James Madison, who ended up setting up a conference where Hamilton drafted a
proposal to get Congress to call a convention of delegates to do a full rework of the Articles of
the Confederation to be not garbage.
He ends up being pretty important for the rest of the bit of history here so he pops up here and
there.
The Founding Fathers pg 162 - Because there was such a demand for a new constitution and
centralized government, Alexander Hamilton and his supporters called for a meeting in Virginia,
where…only 5 delegates showed up. Alexander Hamilton in this meeting concluded that the
delegates should actively try to have more states show up to the next meeting to help make the
meeting actually not a joke. To do this, he actually somehow got George Washington on his
side, who agreed and basically because of him, 55 delegates from places apart from Rhode
Island showed up to Philadelphia for the next meeting. Here, these 55 dudes would be named
the Founding Fathers, and were all relatively young men, with the oldest being an 82 year old
Benjamin Franklin. The meeting did a couple things, 1, it unanimously chose George
Washington to head the meeting, and 2, it instead changed congress to a system in which not
all states, but only a majority of states would be needed for a choice to be made.
The Virginia Plan pg 162 - The Virginia Plan was a plan made by James Madison in which the
new National Legislature would actually be split into 2 houses, the lower house, which would
have states represented by its population size (basically, the bigger your state the more power
your vote holds), while the upper house members would be voted on by the lower house. Uh.
The textbook literally does not say a WORD about this upper house >:(
The upper house would have equal representation of all the states.
Small States versus Large States pg 163 - There was still a serious argument for having larger
states get more representation and more votes, but there was also an argument for whether or

[PAGE 46]
not slaves were to be counted as part of the population. However, it was out of the question
whether or not slaves would be given the right to vote, that was a definite no go for the
government (since the slaves would obviously vote to free themselves).
The Great Compromise pg 163 - A compromise between the larger and smaller states on
representation in government. The Lower House of legislature would be based on population
with slaves counting as 3/5 of a person . The Upper house would have equal representation
with 2 people each state.
James Madison pg 164 - James Madison, is as the textbook says: the “most creative political
thinker of his generation”. James Madison helped solve 2 important questions in the newly
found American country, the question of sovereignty and the question of limiting power. Uh, the
textbook don’t say much else :|, so I will include some personal notes: James Madison helped
draft the constitution alongside Thomas Jefferson and Ben Franklin, and also helped draft the
Bill of Rights. He was also the leader of the earliest Republican party.
The Question of Sovereignty pg 165 - The question in this context, was how could the State and
National government coexist side by side? There was an obvious demand for power on either
side of the spectrum, but there was no clear line. James Madison and his followers ultimately
decided on the idea that the people should be the ultimate decider for this, and also be the
ultimate decider for the government as a whole, therefore the power of the government was not
given by the government itself, or the military, but rather by the people, hence “We the people”.
Separation of Powers pg 166 - So, the separation of powers is referring to the separation of
Legislature into 2 houses, but WHY? Well, the American government obviously did not want just
1 central power in the form of a tyranny, nor did it want a large Republic, so what would happen
would be a separation of power to multiple governing bodies, which is what the US had
established then and there and still remains today.
READING QUIZ#5 INFO STARTS HERE
T h e Federalist Papers pg 167 - The Federalists were a group of people who supported the new
Constitution, and this included prominent figures like George Washington, Benjamin Franklin,
and Alexander Hamilton. They really liked ideas of centralizing the government, and a group of
Federalists consisting of Alexander Hamilton, James Madison, and John Jay wrote a number of
essays to be published across the country that would explain the new constitution to people,
these were the Federalists Papers.
The Anti Federalists pg 167 - The name for people who didn’t like the Federalists (wow who
could have guessed this information not me!). The name was coined BY the Federalists in order
to make their opponents sound worse, which is kind of funny. Antifederalists argued that the

[PAGE 47]
Constitution would betray the principles of the Revolution due to the creation of a central
governmental power. In addition, they argued for a Bill of Rights, claiming that people are
inherently corrupt and that getting rights down on paper would make sure that the liberties of the
people remain.
Debating the Constitution pg 168 - People were arguing over the purpose and power of the
Constitution. Federalists want to use the Constitution to create a central government in order to
prevent anarchy and chaos. There’s also a line about how the Federalists feared the power of
the masses (ISN'T THAT THE WHOLE POINT OF THE REVOLUTION AND STUFF
THOUGH??) Antifederalists wanted power to be more in the States and in the People rather
than a centralized government, as they feared concentrated power.
READING QUIZ#4 INFO ENDS HERE
The Bill of Rights pg 168 - Created during the first Congress, the Bill of Rights (or the first 10
Amendments) declared the rights of the people, preventing congress from infringing on certain
basic rights. Freedom of religion, speech, press, immunity from arbitrary arrest, trial by jury, and
others. The 10th Amendment reserved states all powers except those explicitly stated by the
Federal Government.
The Cabinet pg 168 - THE ROOM WHERE IT HAPPENS! (the only reason I’m doing these
parts is for the Hamilton references). The First Congress created a cabinet for the executive
department, consisting of the State, Treasury, and War departments. Hamilton is the secretary
of Treasury, Henry Knox is the Secretary of War, and Edumund Randolph is the attorney
general. Jefferson ends up as the secretary of state.
As the song goes, not everyone was happy about how this government was run, and many
were bitter about the lack of transparency and representation and stuff.
Competing Visions pg 169 - Following up on the thing above, many people with different ideas
of how the government should be run fight and debate with each other during this time. Some
believe that a Central Government is necessary for the economy and world affairs, while others
believe that American society shouldn’t be too commercial or urban, and should remain rural
and modest, with States holding more power. The people who believed in Central Government
ended up being the Federalists being lead by Hamilton, and those believing in the States
having power became the Republicans , like Thomas Jefferson
Assuming the Debt pg 169 - Hamilton proposed that the federal government should assume all
existing public debt, and pay through bonds with interest that could be paid back at a defined
date. He also suggested that the federal government should assume all debt of the States

[PAGE 48]
accrued during the Revolution. By paying through bonds, this encouraged states to have a
stake in the government succeeding, because people want to cash out on their bonds.
This plan would create a permanent “National Debt”, that would be slowly paid off and also grow
again and the cycle would repeat, putting stakes in seeing the government not completely fail.
Hamilton also wanted to create a National bank to help provide loans and also collect taxes and
stuff, since there were few banks in the country.
Hamiltion’s Report on Manufacturing pg 170 - Following up on the above thing, to fix the whole
debt problem. Hamilton proposed two taxes: ONe paid by distillers of alcohol, impacting those in
the Backcountry heavily. The other was a Tariff on imports, preventing competition from foreign
companies.
The Report itself would also lay out a plan to stimulate the growth of Industry in the US, and
also argued the advantages of his plan.
Basically a vision of how to stabilize the government, and how the nation could become wealthy
fast.
Debating Hamilton’s Program - pg 170 Few people disagreed with Hamilton’s plan for finance
and funding the national debt, but many weren’t too happy with the idea of absorbing all debt in
the nation at face value. Old War bonds had been considered worthless for a while, so buying
all these bonds back meant that the rich people who bought them off veterans and stuff would
get loaded ( TIMOTHY DEXTER W )
Location of the Capital - pg 170 - So this ties back to the Hamilton Program, which if you
remember would basically make everybody responsible for paying debt that didn’t quite affect
them (remember, people are loyal to states, not country). Because of this, Virginians in
particular were very unhappy, as they made a large portion of the population. This led to a
dinner conversation between Hamilton and Jefferson to move the capital to a new district named
Maryland in Virginia, which is how it is now.
Bank of the United States pg 170 - Hamilton really liked the idea of a national bank, and argued
that a National bank would allow for a better tax collection system, and it would make it easier
for loans to be given out to people who needed them to start businesses and so on. In 1791, the
Bank went into operation, and had the right to continue for the next 20 years.
Establishment of the Federalist Party pg 171 - Whether congress liked it or not, it was starting to
look a lot like political factions were starting to rise. In particular, the Federalist party was
already in full swing as they had earlier argued for a more centralized government and
promoted a lot of values such as big cities and industry. This was mainly headed by the current
president George Washington and a young Alexander Hamilton.

[PAGE 49]
Formation of the Republican Party pg 171 - The (first, there will be another Republican party
later on) Republican party was basically an anti-Federalist party, they believed in a
decentralized government and were much more in favor of individual land owners who governed
themselves and would own large tracts of land for themselves. They didn’t like big cities, or
industry, none of that. Most Republicans came from the south, while the Federalists came from
primarily the North. This was headed by Thomas Jefferson and James Madison.
Differences over the French Revolution pg 172 - As the French Revolution came into full swing,
opposing parties in the US found themselves reacting in completely different ways. The
Federalists were in horror of the execution of the king and queen and overthrowing of the
monarchy in France, while the Republicans were in wide support of the overthrow, and even
started to refer to one another as “citizens” and “citizenesses”, basically one side didn’t like the
revolution, and one side was big fans of it. Not that complicated.
Whiskey Rebellion pg 172 - If you remember, Alexander Hamilton imposed laws on farmers who
would turn a portion of their crop into whiskey and other alcohols, and people were not happy
about it, as most Americans are when they hear the word taxes. The Whisky Rebellion was
actually a collection of rebellions in the US where farmers would rise up and protest against the
taxes imposed on them. To stop this, George Washington personally led an army of 15,000 into
Pennsylvania basically to scare the people off.
Indians and the Constitution pg 173 - The Constitution barely mentions Native Americans with
like one line about how they are not taxed by the government and don’t count towards state
population. The constitution gave Congress the power to regulate commerce with foreign
nations, which included the Native Tribes in America. The constitution is really confusing about
saying Native Americans are not foreign nations, and also not citizens. Also the Constitution
says nothing bout land, so like uh oh.
TLDR: The constitution is like uh yeah Native Americans exist uh yeah uh uh congress can talk
to them i guess uh um uh they aren’t citizens uh uh um yeah fr.
Citizen Genet pg 173 - Genet is the first diplomat from a post revolution Fr*nce, and he pisses
off a lot of Americans when he pulls up to Charleston, and basically buys a bunch of weapons
and tries to recruit people to become French Privateers and go fight the Spanish in Florida.
Washington was a bit slightly mildly very angry at this, but luckily for Genet his party lost power
in France, so he was just granted Asylum and he lived a modest life as a farmer.
His name is Edmond Charles Genet
The First major test of American Neutrality
Jay’s Treaty pg 174 - Literally just like 10 years after American independence, it was looking like
another war with Britain was about to break out, as British ships had started to seize American
merchant ships in Asia, and the responsibility of diplomacy was put on John Jay, a Federalist.
The textbook doesn’t get into how Jay’s treaty actually solved the conflict between the British
and Americans, but by the way that the congress reacted super negatively, we can assume that

[PAGE 50]
most people were not fans, mainly because the treaty didn’t help get American ships back or
any payment from the British. However, Jay’s treaty did get ratified, and tensions more or less
died down between Britain and America.
According to google, it just resolved the disputes like British leaving
Pickney’s Treaty pg 174 - Pinckney’s Treaty was a treaty that was signed between Spain and
the US because there was apparently a Spanish fear that America and Britain would join forces
to challenge Spanish trade , so the treaty was there to makes sure that the Americans wouldn’t
intrude on Spanish territory in the Americas, and also the Americans would be given protection
in trading in Spanish controlled territory
Washington’s Farewell Address pg 175 - One Last Time from Hamilton! (no way it’s almost like
they made a musical based off history) Washington retired from office in 1797. In a letter written
by Hamilton mostly kinda, Washington gives his last opinions on the Party System, Republicans,
and also warned against International conflicts. This also gave a chance for Jefferson to
become president as the main Republican Candidate
Divided Federalists pg 175- Hamilton’s too controversial of a guy to run for president, so John
adams became the nominee for the Federalists. However without Washington there, the
Federalist Party broke into subgroups over who should run for president and that kind of stuff.
When Adams got elected, he was the president of a party divided into groups, where he wasn’t
even in control (Hamilton was still more influential)
The XYZ Affair pg 176 Americans arrived in Fr*nce in 1797 for negotiation and stuff, but the
Fr*nch, and specifically agents of the Foreign Minister Prince Talleyrand demanded the US give
Fr*nce a bunch of money and also bribe a ton of people before negotiations began. Of course,
this was not a good idea because like… duh, so Congress hears about this and basically
publishes the transcripts of the event and reports everywhere, with the names of the Fr*nch
Agents being Censored to Messrs X Y and Z. People in America find out about this and are a
little mad at Fr*nce
This would lead to the “quasi war” with France
The QuasiWar pg 176 - (A unoffical naval war between the Fr*nch and US) Adams persuaded
Congress to cut off all trade with France and to authorize American vessels to capture French
armed ships on the high seas. In 1798, Congress created a Department of the Navy and
appropriated money for the construction of new warships. The navy soon won a number of
duels with French vessels and captured 85 ships, including armed merchantmen. The US also
began cooperation closely with the British and became an ally of Britain in the war with
France(How the turntables)
In the end, France chose to conciliate before the conflict grew.
Alien and Sedition Acts pg 176 - The conflict with France helped the Federalists increase their
majorities in Congress in 1798. With this new strength, they began to consider ways to silence

[PAGE 51]
the Republican opposition. The result was some of the most controversial legislation in
American history: the Alien and Sedition Acts. The Alien Act placed new obstacles in the way of
immigrants, and strengthened the president’s hand in dealing with these immigrants. The
Sedition Act allowed the government to prosecute those who engaged in sedition (speech
encouraging people to rebel against the government) against the government. In theory, only
libelous or treasonous activities were subject to prosecution; but since such activities were open
to widely varying definitions, the law made it possible for the federal government to stifle almost
any opposition.
TO FUTURE JUNIORS TAKING READING QUIZ: Don’t just say that these acts
Virginia and Kentucky Resolutions pg 177 - Republican leaders who believed that states had the
power to nullify congressional legislation laid out a theory for state action in two sets of
resolutions in 1798-1799. The Kentucky Resolution was written anonymously by Jefferson and
the Virginia one was drafted by Madison. These Resolutions used the ideas of John Locke to
argue that the federal government had been formed by a contract among the states and
possessed only certain delegated powers. Whenever the federal government exercised any
undelegated powers, its acts were voided. The Kentucky resolution claimed that they had the
right to nullify the appropriate laws if the parties to the states determined that the central
government had exceeded those powers.
BASICALLY: Republicans didn’t want the ALien and Sedition acts anymore. They think that the
states should have the right to judge federal laws and that acts laid down by the gov that were
too extreme would be void and of no force.
The Election of 1800 pg 177 - YEAH YEAH THIS WAS THE SHIT THAT GOT HAMILTON
KILLED!!! So basically, Adams and Jefferson were competing for the spot of president, and a
whole bunch of drama happened. Strap in boys, because shit’s about to get wild. The campaign
was an ugly one, while the candidates displayed dignity, their supporters were going bonkers.
The Federalists accused Jefferson of being a dangerous radical and his followers of being wild
men who would bring on a reign of terror comparable to that of the French Revolution. The
Republicans portrayed Adams as a tyrant conspiring to become king, and accused the
Federalists of plotting to subvert human liberty and impose slavery on the people. There were
also considerable personal insults as well. For example, it was during this campaign that the
story of Jefferson’s romantic involvement with a slave woman on his plantation was first widely
aired. It was close, and the crucial contest was in New York. There, Aaron Burr(Sir) had
mobilized an organization of Revolutionary War veterans, the Tammany Society, to serve as a
Republican political machine. And through Tammany’s efforts, the Republicans carried the city
by a large majority, and with it, the state. Jefferson was, apparently, elected. But an unexpected
complication soon jeopardized the Republican victory. This is where it gets good. So each
person now had to vote for two people, instead of just voting for the presidential candidate and
for the vice presidential candidate. To avoid a tie, Republicans came up with a weird plan where
only one person will not vote for Burr. Of course, the plan failed. Jefferson and Burr tied, and a
long ballot process ensued. Finally, Hamilton casted the deciding vote in favor of Jefferson,
because he thought Burr to be untrustworthy.
TL;DR Adams vs TJefferson - supporters of each were really wild. Feds accused Jefferson of
being dangerous and his followers being a dangerous radical and his followers being a bunch of
losers. Republicans said Adams wanted to become a tyrant and said he would make the people

[PAGE 52]
slaves. There was some controversy about how Jefferson was romantic with one of his slaves.
Aaron Burr ahd mobilized a bunch of revolutionary war vets (Tammany Society) to help win New
York fo the Republicans. Jefferson gets elected but then there’s some complication where they
need to develop a plan for each person to vote for two people instead of the vice and president.
The plan fails and TJ and ABurr tie. Hamilton chooses TJ.
The Judiciary Act of 1801 pg 178 - After the election of 1800, the only branch of the federal
government in Federalist hands was the judiciary. The Adams administration spent its last
months in office taking steps to make the party’s hold on the courts secure. By the Judiciary Act
of 1801, passed by the lame duck Congress(huh??? WHAT? According to the textbook ) The act
decreased the amount of supreme justices by one but increased the federal judges by a lot.
The Jeffersonian Vision pg 181 Jefferson viewed America as a society of independent farmers
free from Industry and the Urban Sprawls of Europe. He would promote localism and simplicity,
with a weakened central government.
BASICALLY Anti-Fed stuff
However in reality, America was developing in the opposite direction with more and more cities
and flowing commerce and industrialism. Jefferson helped weaken the Federal government, but
he also found himself in situations where a Central government was necessary for the function
of the country.
Importance of Virtuous Citizenry pg 181 Jefferson wanted all the Citizens of America to be
educated. He believed that all white male citizens should be educated for free. Some states
endorsed free education, but nobody really followed through. Schooling would be something for
private institutions more of the time than not.
Private Schooling pg 181 Most of the time. Only those who could afford education would you
know, be educated. Many Private schools are run by religious groups, and end up with a mostly
aristocratic school population training to become the nation’s elite
NEw Educational Opportunities for Women pg 182 Before, women often did not get educated at
all, and at least 50% of women were illiterate in the colonies. However, people started thinking
“how can we have educated kids if the people raising kids aren’t educated?” and this brilliant
line of thinking led to the creation of Female academies throughout the nation. In addition, more
Feminist ideals start to appear as women argue for the rights to education and more
independence.
Higher Education pg 182 - higher education was less widely available than education at lower
levels, despite Republican hopes for a wide dispersion of advanced knowledge.(Jefferson
formed the University of Virginia to promote that ideal.) The number of colleges and universities
in America grew from nine at the start of the Revolution to a whopping twenty-two, and
continued to increase. None of these new schools was truly public. Even those established by
state legislatures relied on private contributions and on tuition fees. Scarcely more than one
white man in a thousand (and no women, African Americans, or Indigenous) had access to
college education.

[PAGE 53]
Indian Education pg 182 - Reformers who believed in the power of education to reform and
redeem ignorant and “backward” people spurred a growing interest in Indigenous education.
Because Jefferson and his followers liked to think of Native Americans as “noble savages”, they
hoped that schooling the indigenous in white culture would tame and “uplift” the tribes. Although
the governments did little to promote Indigenous education, missionaries and mission schools
increased rapidly among the tribes.
Almost no one thought that there was a need to educate African Americans.
Benjamin Rush pg 183 A Philadelphia physician that figured out that sanitation was actually
important for hospitals and doctors . This was an extremely revolutionary and new idea that
helped stop disease.
He still took some Ls though - he believed in bleeding as a medical solution - which would
technically lead to Washington’s death as he dies of infection from bleeding (oh well)
Decline of Midwifery pg 183 - In the early nineteenth century, physicians began to handle
deliveries themselves and to demand restrictions on the role of midwives. Among the results of
that change was a narrowing of opportunities for women(midwifery was an important female
occupation) and a restriction of access to childbirth care for poor mothers.
Establishment of a National Culture pg 183 - Many Americans in the Jeffersonian era may have
rejected the Federalist belief in political and economic centralization, but most embraced
another form of nationalism with great passion. Having won political independence from Europe,
they now aspired to a form of cultural independence.In the process, they wanted American
literary and artistic life that could rival those in Europe. As a popular “Poem on the Rising Glory
of America” had predicted as early as 1772, Americans believed that their “happy land” was
destined to become the “seat of empire” and the final stage of civilization.
Noah Webster pg 184 - Webster is the guy who insisted on a more simple spelling(Color instead
of colour). His American Spelling Book , first published in 1783 and commonly known as the
“blue-backed speller,” eventually sold over 100 million copies. It became the best-selling book
(except for the Bible) in the history of American publishing. Also, his school dictionary, issued in
1806, was republished in many editions and was eventually enlarged to become An American
Dictionary of the English Language in 1828. His speller and his dictionary established a national
standard of words and usages.
Washington Irving pg 184 - Washington Irving was a resident of New York State and won wide
acclaim for his satirical histories of early American life and powerful tales of society in the New
World. His popular folklores, narrating the adventures of American agrarians like Ichabod Crane
and Rip Van Winkle (I need to hire this guy to name my kid) made him “critically acclaimed”
leader of American literary life in his era and one of the few writers of that time whose books
would be continued to be read by later generations.

[PAGE 54]
Deism pg 184 - A “religion” that accepted the existence of God, but considered God a remote
being who withdrew from common affairs after creating the universe.(So pretty much atheists)
Books and articles attacking religious “superstitions” attracted wide readership and induced lots
of discussions, and among them was Thomas Paine’s The Age of Reason , published in parts
from 1794 to 1796. Paine once called Christianity the “strangest religion ever set up,” because
“it committed a murder upon Jesus in order to redeem mankind from the sin of eating an apple”.
Cane Ridge pg 185 - By 1800, the revivalist energies of all the sects were combining to create
the greatest surge of evangelical fever since the first Great Awakening(Wow who’d have thunk
it! It’s almost like it’s the SECOND Great awakening! OH WAIT, IT IS!!!!!) Beginning among
Presbyterians in several eastern colleges, it soon spread rapidly throughout the country,
reaching its greatest heights in the western regions. In just a few years, a large portion of the
American people were mobilized by the movement, and membership in churches that embraced
the revival, like the Methodists, the Baptists, and the Presbyterians, skyrocketed. At Cane
Ridge, a group of evangelical ministers presided over the nation’s first “camp meeting” , an
extraordinary revival that lasted several days and impressed all who saw it with its size. (An
estimated 25,000 people attended)
Message of the Second Great Awakening pg 185 - Basically, individuals must re-admit God and
Christ (religion yippee) into their daily lives, have to embrace an intense and active piety, and
must reject the rationalism that threatened traditional beliefs. The Second Great Awakening
failed to revive the religious ideas of the past. Few of the revivalist sects still accepted the idea
of predestination; and the belief that a person could change his or her own destiny added more
fuel to the individual’s search for salvation. In short, the Awakening combined a more active
piety with a belief in God as an active force in the world. It also accelerated the growth of
different sects. It helped create a broad popular acceptance of the idea that men and women
could belong to different Protestant churches and still be committed to essentially the same
Christian faith.
Week 5 (I’ll start my dues here - Joyce) A NEW CHALLENGER APPROACHES!!!!!
African Americans and the Revivals pg 188: Although Revivalism was popular in white society,
revivalism was a huge thing within African American communities. The religious ideals were
widely embraced by African American communities which resulted in a group of substantial
black preachers who were important within slave communities. Some of these preachers said
the egalitarian religious message of the second awakening was a message for the black people
Revival meetings in Virginia also resulted in an elaborate slave rebellion plan in the 1800s which
was discovered and caused a lot of racial tension in the South.
Indians and the Second Great Awakening pg 188: Tons of Natives suffered in the aftermath of
the American Revolution, leading a ton of tribes to have a sense of crisis, resulting in an era of
Indigenous religious fervor and prophecy. These conversions were mostly sparked by baptist

[PAGE 55]
and Presbyterian missionaries. Seemingly, it was also sparked by some random prophet named
Handsome Lake (LMFAOOO) who had a “rebirth” after suffering years of alcoholism, and
because this was seemingly so amazing, they gave him a high rank within his tribe??? Bro idk,
he also said he met jesus, who instructed him to tell his people that they shouldn’t “follow the
ways of the white man” and then that inspired a ton of Indigenous to give up gambling, drinking,
and other bad habits derived from white society.
Freethinkers pg 188: someone else do this one i like green
Freethinkers are like those atheist redditors kinda i think? Book doesn’t say much other than
they were people who disagreed with the Second Great Awakening, and that they kinda went
away as the Great Awakening grew larger and larger
Eli Whitney’s Cotton Gin pg 189: The cotton gin was an amazing invention that removed the
seeds out of the cotton, which was really difficult to do, and usually took many hours of skilled,
and laborious work just to produce 3 pounds of cotton in a day. (The gin in it’s name is an
abbreviation of engine apparently). The machine was a simple machine which contained a
toothed roller that caught the fibers of the cotton and pulled them between the wires of a grating.
The grating then caught the seeds while a revolving brush removed the lint from the rollers
teeth. With this invention, a single operator could clean as much cotton in a few hours as a
group of workers cleaning cotton for a whole day.
The Cotton Gin’s Impact on the NORTH pg 189: As cotton became easier to harvest, demand
went up, and many entrepreneurs in New England and elsewhere had strong incentives to start
a textile business. In the Northern states, it was pretty hard to do agricultural business but by
learning how to turn cotton into yarn and thread, plantation owners could make tons of money in
the industrial industry instead. But with this emerging industrial textile movement in the North,
there was a wedge driven between the nations two most populous regions, one becoming
increasingly industrial, while the other still being very rooted in agriculture.
Mewomeowmeowmeowmeowmeowmeow
Rapid Growth of American Shipping pg 189: There were multiple ways to solve the problem of
the small American market. One of these ways was to look for customers overseas. Among the
first acts of the new Congress when it met in 1789 were two tariff (Tariff and Collection Act) bills
giving preference to American ships in American ports; stimulating an expansion of domestic
shipping. More importantly was the wars that broke out over Europe in the 1790s, allowing
American merchant vessels to carry most of the trade between Europe and the Western
Hemisphere. Very early on, America had a merchant marine and a booming foreign trade
economy. (Second only to England) The United States had more ships and international
commerce per capita than any other country.
Robert Fulton’s Steamboat pg 190

[PAGE 56]
MY BOY ROBERT FULTON IS PACKIN and he pulls up on them 7 seas (not true) with the
Steamboat. Named Clermont , this baby is equipped with paddle wheels and an ENGINE and he
pulls up on the Hudson. Even though it is slow as heck (30 hours for 150 miles), It still highlights
the viability of steamboats as a new form of transportation for goods and people.
The Turnpike era pg 190 In 1792, a corporation constructed a toll road running the sixty miles
from Philadelphia to Lancaster. This road proved so successful that several other companies
laid out similar turnpikes (named for the kind of tollgate that was frequently used) from other
cities to neighboring towns. These roads had to be profitable, so they were only made in short
distances and through densely populated areas.
Urban Life pg 191 People living in towns and cities lived differently than the vast majority of
Americans who continued to work as farmers. Urban life produced affluence, amongst other
things. Affluent people often sought amenities that were so luxurious, they could only be used
by the wealthy farmers. They sought increasing elegance and refinement in their homes, their
properties, and their clothes. They also looked for activities–music, theater, dancing, and, most
popularly, horse racing.
The New Capital City pg 193 The new national capital was the city of Washington. A Fr*nch(ew)
YOU WANNA PLAY LET'S PLAY NO CHAMBER I DON'T WANNA PLAYarchitect by the name
of Pierre L’Enfant(This guys name…) designed the capital on a grand scale, with broad avenues
coming(Ayo?!?) out of the uncompleted Capitol building, set on one of the highest hills in the
area. Many Americans believed it would be the Paris of the United States. However, throughout
Jefferson’s presidency and most of the 19th century, it was nothing more than a little village.
Although the population steadily increased, it never competed with the likes of New York,
Philadelphia, or other major cities. The city remained an inhospitable community with very few
public buildings. Members of Congress viewed Washington as nothing more than a place to
briefly visit during the sessions of the legislature. It was not unusual for a member of Congress
to resign in the middle of a session to return home if he could accept the more prestigious post
of member of his state legislature.
Jefferson the Politician pg 193 Jefferson is a smart guy, and he knows how big of a deal being
the president is. He prioritizes unity and cohesion, doing this in a few ways
1. He makes the seat of president look less like a king all majestic and the like, but still
exerts his influence on the Republicans
2. He also gets a lot more people into the Federal Government as Republicans, making his
party more powerful
These things lead to Jefferson’s landslide reelection victory in 1804
Limiting the Federal Government pg 195 Jefferson is an Anti Federalist/Republican, so he
believes that the States should have more power. In addition, he also believes that the
Government is spending too much overall, leading to lots of debt (thanks hamilton) which leads
to more taxes (like that one whiskey one that is mildly controversial)

[PAGE 57]
Jefferson made it a point to reverse this trend, by persuading Congress to abolish internal taxes
and reducing government spending. Jefferson is able to cut the Debt in almost half (83 to 45
million jeez)
Jefferson also scaled down the army by almost half and cut the navy by a lot. But at the same
time, he puts a lot of effort into establishing a military academy so that he can train soldiers
when he needs them (he’s gonna need them)
Challenging the Barbary Pirates pg 195 and this is why. The Barbary States of Northern Africa
demand “protection money” from all ships passing by, and even England just pays up. However
Jefferson sees paying these guys as appeasement and he pulls up to try and wipe the Pirates
out. This goes kind of badly not really. Jefferson reaches an agreement with the Pirates that
makes them leave American Ships alone, but the US pays 60k in ransom money for the release
of some prisoners, which is seen as humiliating by many.
Judicial Review pg 195 Federalists had long maintained the view that the Supreme Court had
the authority to nullify acts of Congress(despite the fact that the Constitution said nothing about
it), and the Court had exercised the power of judicial review in 1796 when it upheld the validity
of a law passed by the legislature. The Court’s authority in this area would not be secure until it
actually declared a congressional act unconstitutional.
Marbury V Madison pg 195 In 1803, in the case of Marbury v. Madison , it did so. William
Marbury, one of Adams’s “midnight appointments,” had been named a justice of the peace in the
District of Columbia. But his commission had not been delivered to him before Adams left office.
Once Jefferson became president, James Madison, the new secretary of state, refused to had
the commission to Marbury, even though it was already signed and sealed by Adams. Marbury
appealed to the Supreme Court for an order directing Madison to do his duty. In the ruling, the
Court found that Marbury had a right to his commission but it ordered that Madison had no
authority to deliver it. In the end, Marbury never got his commission.
TL;DR In 1803, the case of Marbury v. Madison happened. William Marbury had been chosen
as a judge by President Adams, but his official papers (commission) weren’t given to him before
Adams left office. When Jefferson became president, James Madison refused to give Marbury
the papers. Marbury asked the Supreme Court to make Madison hand them over. The Court
said Marbury should have gotten his commission, but also said Madison didn’t have the power
to give it to him. So in the end, Marbury never got the job.
John Marshall pg 196 Ok here's a funny thing: John Marshall, before becoming chief justice of
the Supreme Court, was Adams's secretary of state. Mr.Marshall was actually the one who
didn’t want to give Marbury the commission. Anyway, John Marshall, immediately after being
appointed to chief justice, established himself as the most dominant figure on the Court, shaping
all of its most important rulings. Through a succession of Republican administrations, he
established the judiciary as a branch of government coequal with the executive and the
legislative–a position that the founders of the republic never clearly indicated it should occupy.

[PAGE 58]
TL;DR Marshall made the Judiciary branch as a dominant figurehead between the Executive
and Legislative branches, which is what the founding fathers didn’t want. Dude was Adams’s
secretary of state and didn’t deliver Marbury’s commission. Very strong dude.
Impeachment of Samuel Chase pg 196 Ok so the Republicans have a lot of power but this
Samuel Chase guy is one of the few remaining Federalist Supreme Court Judges in power at
the time. A lot of republicans don’t like this guy so they try and impeach him under the grounds
of “we don’t like him and because of that he probably sucks at his job and he probably also
hates the people”. However Chase gets acquitted, which sets an important precedent where
impeachment is not used as a political tool for parties to gain power .
Toussaint L’Ouverture pg 198 An African slave on the French controlled island Santo Domingo,
he and hundreds of other African slaves on the island managed a revolt that overthrew the
French regime there and freed themselves, with Toussaint as its leader of the new Republic.
This republic didn’t last long, as Napoleon brought back French rule via military intervention.
AP WORLD REFERENCE????
Napoleon’s Offer pg 199 Napoleon realizes that he can’t fight everyone in Europe and conquer
America at the same time, plus his troops in the Americas get wiped by disease, so Napoleon
wants to get rid of his American Territory. Also because Jefferson looks like he’s gonna fight in
New Orleans and Napoleon ain't got time for that. So Napoleon offers the entirety of the
Louisiana Territory to Jefferson. America Pays $15 million and gives some extra rights for the
French in New Orleans for the whole thing on April 30,1803.
Jefferson didn’t have the authority to do this but the government was like “WOAH WHAT A
DEAL” so they let him
Jefferson’s Quandary pg 200 Jefferson, being an antifederalist, believes that the Federal
Government only has the powers specifically given to it by the constitution , which just so
happens does NOT include the ability to acquire land. Jefferson’s advisers tell him it counts as
“treaty making”, so it’s all good, and Jefferson basically goes “welp uh we change the rules
when they are too vague to do stuff we want to do”(WHICH IS WHAT THE FEDERALISTS
WERE SAYING ALL ALONG YOU HYPOCRITE)
Zebulon Pike pg 201 Zebulon Pike, full name Zebulon Montgomery Pike, is a guy who leads an
expedition from St. Louis to the upper Mississippi Valley. He then sets out to the Arkansas River
and Colorado where he tries (and fails) to climb a mountain that’s named after him some time
later. He basically becomes a source of major Misinformation when he says that the land
between the Missouri River and the Rockies was an extreme, desolate desert (wtf).
Essex Junto pg 201 A group of extreme Federalists that decide that the only logical thing to do
here is to secede from the union and form a “Northern Confederacy” (oh wow uh… didn’t know
about this until now uh yeah this is ironic…) However this group needs the support of New
Jersey and New York to really be able to do this. Hamilton, who is like the main Federalist, and
is in New York is not on board with this plan, and he basically says “bruh wtf no”. So this group
turns to Hamilton’s Rival Aaron Burr (sir), who has been kind of powerless in the current political
world.

[PAGE 59]
Hamilton and Burr pg 201 HAHAHA OF COURSE IM GOING TO DO THIS ONE (the world
WAS wide enough)
Burr became the Federalist candidate for the 1804 Election, but there were rumors that Burr
supported the plans to secede from the Union, leading Hamilton to make a bunch of very mean
comments and also formally accuse Burr of Treason against the US. Hamilton’s remarks and
also his final vote led to Burr not winning the New York Election. Burr blames Hamilton for his
failure, and the two duel. Hamilton gets shot and dies in the duel. This was still a L for Burr
because as far as everyone else in the colonies knows, Burr shot his main political rival after he
blamed him for losing the Election, so he has to flee New York. Burr tries to become a political
power a few times over, and then he gets arrested, acquitted, and then kind of disgraced for the
rest of his life, but the fact he got away kinda sucks.
This whole debacle highlights the imperfections of a weak central government, where people
can undermine the government and get away with it kind of…
Ryan, are we done?
Uhhh, this is just the point where my fingers got tired during my TA period plus Mr Dunn told me
to go sort lab trays…
What page do we go up to?
I guess up to somewhere in the 223 region??? (oh shit)
. . .
READING QUIZ#6 INFO ENDS HERE
The Napoleonic Wars pg 202 Later in Thomas Jefferson’s presidency, two very different
conflicts were taking shape. They would draw the United States into a difficult and frustrating
war. One was the continued tension in Europe, which escalated in 1803 into yet another

[PAGE 60]
full-scale conflict. The Napoleonic Wars saw both England and France taking steps to prevent
the US from trading with the other.
READING QUIZ#5 INFO ENDS HERE
America’s Predicament pg 203 American ships were caught between Napoleon’s decrees and
Britain’s orders in council. If they sailed directly for the European continent, they risked being
captured by the British navy, and if they sailed for British ports, then they risked seizure from the
Fr*nch. Both of the nations were violating America’s rights as a neutral nation. Most Americans
considered the British, with their greater navy, the worst of the two.
Chesapeake-Leopard Incident pg 203 In the summer of 1807, the British went to even more
extreme measures in an incident involving a vessel of the American navy. Sailing for NOrfolk,
with “deserters” from the British navy among the crew, the American naval frigate Chesapeake
encountered the British ship Leopard . When the American commander, James Barron, refused
British access to their ship, the Leopard opened fire. Barron had to surrender, and a boarding
party dragged four men off the frigate. Obviously, this caused immense outrage in America, and
if congress was in session, it might have declared war.
The Embargo pg 204: It was basically an act that stopped American trade in foreign ports. It
was signed by Jefferson in December of 1807. France passed a law that stopped trade between
countries like the U.S. and Britain. In simpler terms, it closed U.S. ports to all exports and
restricted imports from Britain as an attempt to avert war. It was widely evaded but still hit the
nation hard, putting the US in a depression of some sort. The hardest hit were the merchants
and shipowners of the Northeast, most of them Federalists.
Non-Intercourse Act pg 204: AyOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO
Apparently it’s actually a law passed to replace the embargo act and it reopened trade with all
nations BUT Britain and France. A year after it was enacted, congress allowed it to expire and
replaced it again with Macon’s Bill No.2 which reopened trade with Britain and France but under
conditions. Napoleon announced that France would no longer interfere w/ American shipping
and low Madison announced that unless Britain renounced its restrictions on American shipping,
they would make an embargo against Britain. Eventually, the British government repealed its
blockade of Europe but it was too late to prevent the war.
William Henry Harrison pg 205: William Henry Harrison was a 26 year old Virginian with veteran
experience in fighting Indigenous peoples and taking their land, and a congressional delegate in
1799 representing the Northwest Territory(remember, these areas aren’t quite states just yet).
So what did this guy DO? Harrison implemented the Harrison Land Law in 1800, which

[PAGE 61]
gave White settlers easier access to the newly acquired American territory than before ,
how was this done you might ask? Well, Harrison made the price of buying Western land halved
right out the gate, but you would still have to pay full price by making sure you paid the rest of
the price over the course of 4 years. Why did this work? Put simply, buying land West was a
little too expensive in the past, since you would hafta pay so much upfront, the new law allowed
for more middle-class Americans looking to pursue new environments and easier access to land
west of the Eastern coast.
Jefferson’s Offer pg 205: Now, as we just saw, Harrison managed to make it easier for people to
acquire land, but there was a slight problem…there were people who were on the land, and they
had been there for generations before the white settlers so rudely barged in. Jefferson
nicknamed this the…uh…”Indian problem.” :| Which is just…wonderful. SO, what did Jefferson
do about–”that”? Jefferson offered the Indigenous peoples a choice, either they assimilate
into White society by farming, or they could move west (the first option would be later
removed by Andrew Jackson :)) why we still have him on money infuriates me).
The Prophet’s Message pg 206 ‘The Prophet’ in this context wasn’t actually a REAL prophet
title, but rather somebody’s name, and honestly, Prophet is a cool name. The pronunciation for
the name would be Tenskwatawa, and he experienced “mystical awakenings” as the textbook
calls em, in which he was shown the evil of the White settlers encroaching on their land. NOW,
you might be thinking, well, basically ALL Indigenous people already considered and knew the
White settlers were definitely not the Indigenous people’s best friends, so why is this important?
‘The Prophet’ not only was his name, but also HIS TITLE WAHAHA I TRICKED YOU KINDA,
meaning that Prophet’s word was him interpreting the spirits around him. Real quick, let’s step
back and take a look at all these factors: 1. Indigenous people are VERY UNHAPPY with some
random mayo monkeys coming out of nowhere and taking the land they had been living on for
generations 2. A person who has RELIGIOUS AUTHORITY reaffirms that the crackers are evil
and what they bring will be nothing but strife. What does this mean? PEOPLE ARE FUMING,
and they have LEGITAMATE ARGUMENTS TO and it is this shared anger that causes a BIG
religious revival amongst Indigenuos communities, far and wide around the area West of the
East coast.
Tecumseh’s Strategy pg 207 Te WHAT seh??? Tecumseh was a very famous Seminole war
chief, he’s cold asf trust me.
WOO! Tecumseh BIG MAN. Tecumseh was chief of the Shawnee tribe, and was a big advocate
for fighting back using violence against the White settlers taking Indigenous land. Tecumseh’s
Strategy was to unite all the Indigenous peoples in the Mississippi Valley together to halt White
settlers from continuing their expansion into the West, and to make the Ohio river the border to
US controlled territory and Indigenous land.
Tecumseh also argued that the individual tribes in the Mississippi area that had given up their
land via contracts to the US was bullshit. He argued that these contracts were made without the

[PAGE 62]
consent of all the other tribes, and that because of this, the White settlers had no real title to the
land.
Real quick, why do I like Tecumseh so much? Tecumseh was a very accomplished warrior, who
went sicko mode whenever he wanted and was basically the epitome of “f” it we ball” and never
shied away from fighting the US settlers, even though he was mostly unsuccessful, he had a
number of victories in the war of 1812. Basically fighter guy cool.
Battle of Tippecanoe pg 207 SO, if you remember, ‘The Prophet’ was a PRETTY influential
figure in the Mississippi valley area, and his headquarters was a place named “Prophetstown”
which was around the Tippecanoe area. Him and his brother, Tecumseh were normally camped
here, but in 1811, Tecumseh left to travel south and visit the other tribes to try to get them to join
his goal in making a large Indigenous alliance to fight off White settlers. During Tecumseh’s
absence, William Henry Harrison(yeah the guy from earlier) brought a thousand soldiers and
started a fight in November, managing to burn the town but with HEAVY White casualty. This
was the battle. Why is this battle important? Well, because of “The Prophet”, it was believed the
town was magical and would be protected from violence, but this was a clear sign there was
nothing magical in sight. This caused many to leave the cause, albeit with a good number still
staying behind to fight
War Hawks pg 208 Representatives of both Political Parties that are itchin’ for a war with Britain.
Most are Nationalists who want to expand American Territory even more, Others are people
who are really into Republican Values. One of them, Henry Clay, becomes Speaker of the
House in 1811 and puts all his war wanting buddies into Committees, including the Committee
on Foreign Affairs and everyone starts planning to go and conquer Canada. (this does not go
well)
Early Defeats pg 208 The war of 1812 was now more alive than ever, with the Americans very
ready to fight a war yet again. They started by invading Canada via supply lines in
detroit…which went terribly and they were forced to retreat. Thanks to the fact that the British
navy was mostly occupied fighting a certain French dictator, America actually got a couple
victories out on the open seas, but when the English ships came back from fighting in the
English channel, the tide quickly turned in favor of the English. Basically, everything was going
wrong for the yanks.
Put-In-Bay pg 208 The only place the US seemed to not catch Ls and have their maidens few
was in the Great Lakes, where they took control of Lake Ontario, and later through the efforts of
a young Oliver Perry, they managed to also take control of Put-in-Bay in 1813, which is SUPER
IMPORTANT because it meant that the US could move troops into Canada via Detroit super
easily. This small victory by some guy who’s name is more associated with a duck-billed
mammal snowballed into something more. William Henry Harrison managed to push up the
Thames and into upper Canada and defeated Tecumseh, killing the chief in the process ( D: ),

[PAGE 63]
which greatly destroyed the morale of the Indigenous fighters, while also punching massive
holes in the British and Indigenous armies.
The British Invasion pg 208 After Napoleon Surrenders, the British pull up against the US,
sailing up the Patuxent River to Bladensburg, which is near Washington. On August 24, 1814,
the British burn the White House and other public buildings as retaliation for burning the
Canadian Capital of York. The Bri ish then move toward Baltimore, where many Americans were
preparing for battle at Fort McHenry. The battle at Fort McHenry would become the events
described in the National Anthem “The Star Spangled Banner”
Battle of New Orleans pg 209 A large group of highly experienced British troops (basically the
equivalent of modern day commandos) arrived in New Orleans, looking to make some headway
up North through the Mississippi. The army to meet the British commandos there was a certain
Andrew Jackson with a ragtag bunch of Tennessean, Kentuckian, Creolean militia, African
Americans (doesn’t say free or not, so can’t specify sorry) (it said “free men of color”) , pirates,
and regular infantry.
Jackson and his forces got ready to fend off a siege, getting ready defenses in New Orleans,
where they managed to successfully repel the British troops, seemingly beating the odds also
because like sieges are tough for the attackers dude, positional advantages and all( ._.)
Nonetheless, it was an impressive victory, with 700 dead, 1400 wounded, and 500 PoWs, all
redcoats. Whereas Jackson’s forces suffered only 8 killed and 13 wounded which might be a
little fake but if it isn’t, quite impressive. (I still hate Andrew Jackson)
Hartford Convention pg 210 SO, I know I made it definitely sound like the Americans were
literally eating the British alive, but in reality, these were handpicked victories that the textbook
made a big deal out of, and doesn’t really say much about the fact that the Americans were
losing literally everywhere else. This caused the American people to be VERY unhappy, and in
New England, where the Federalist party was somehow still the majority party there, delegates
from the state agreed to meet up in Hartford Connecticut to discuss grievances (and possibly
start a new Federalist-led nation just like our big man e-sex from a while back). The idea of
secession WAS brought up, but was not fully supported and it never happened, but WAS
proposed were 7 new amendments to the Constitution, which were designed to protect New
England from influence of the South and West. This never happened however, since word of
Jackson’s victory in New Orleans got out, basically nobody respected the Federalists anymore,
so yeah.
Treaty of Ghent pg 210 The Treaty of Ghent was a treaty signed on Christmas eve of 1814, and
was named “Ghent '' after the Dutch city it was signed in. This treaty basically made Britain give
up territories in the Northwest, ending the war, and also made each other promise that they
would both work on ending the slave trade . (Bellas said all it really did was stop fighting, thats
probably why it didn't say much in the book)

[PAGE 64]
Additional treaties (I included this) In my opinion, they should have just put down a singular
vocab term for like “treaties” in general, but there is another important treaty to discuss, and that
is a commercial treaty in 1815 which allowed the Americans and the English to trade to their
own delight without intervention. WHAT DO ALL THESE TREATIES MEAN? This means that
the US is REALLY committed to fixing relations with European powers, since they know that
Europe is still their largest customer and they need to keep these relations intact.
Rush Bagot Agreement pg 211 The Rush Bagot agreement basically had both the English and
the US drop their guns in the Great Lakes area.
Postwar Issues pg 215 If you remember, the war of 1812 cut off imports for a while, which did
help the domestic manufacturing industry, but also brought with it a lot of chaos in the shipping
and banking industry for obvious reasons. This also exposed the fact that American
infrastructure for trade was just straight up awful, although the textbook doesn’t say why :)). The
important thing to note for this term is that the aftermath of the war left the country in a tough
financial spot, and made the American government focus once again on its economy.
Second Bank of the United States pg 215 In 1811, the first Bank of the US had its charter
expire, and a large number of state banks started opening up, and although these were popular,
the banks didn’t have enough money to really back the notes up. Another problem with these
state banks was that there were a lot of different bank notes in circulation that were not super
easily traced back to their origins, meaning that there was yet another currency problem in the
US, with confusion and counterfeiting everywhere(you could just say “uh… this bank note is
from xyz state haha, give me money). In order to combat this, Congress chartered the second
Bank of the US in 1816, and was basically the exact same bank that Hamilton founded in 1791
but it had more capital and was more heavily sponsored. Even though it had no power to issue
currency, its size allowed it to be virtually everywhere, and it put other banks out of business.
Growth of the Textile Industry pg 216 Because of the US government shutting down imports, the
American manufacturing industry boomed, with the textile industry in particular leading the way
between 1807 and 1815. This was not only because of the aforementioned factor, but also
because of the invention of the Cotton Gin, which made domestic production of cotton absurdly
high. Francis Cabot Lowell in 1813 created a super powerful loom that was a lot more efficient
than its English counterpart, and also founded the first mill in America that was meant for
spinning and weaving at the same time.
A Protective Tariff pg 216 In 1816, a group named “protectionists” in Congress managed to pass
a Tariff law that limited FOREIGN competition in American domestic markets, with cotton cloth
being the one that was most limited, this would sponsor more domestic competition and would
hopefully raise the strength of the American economy. Doesn’t really say the effects of this tariff
at all, which is a very APUSH textbook thing to do. :/

[PAGE 65]
Government Funded Roads pg 217 AMERICA ROAD BAD! This was the sentiment that a lot of
people had, despite turnpikes and the steamboat, there was still an issue with the fact that there
weren’t any roads that were recognized by the government, making it harder for people to travel
throughout the American east coast. Jefferson and his secretary Albert Gallatin proposed that
revenues from the Ohio land sales should be used to finance a National Road from the Potomac
River to the Ohio River. This was quickly approved by congress and in 1811, it went into
construction, and by 1818 the highway was finished. These quickly became pretty traffic filled
roads, and along with the Lancaster turnpike, the transportation issue was one step closer to
being solved, and the domestic market for goods, specifically textiles and cotton grew even
larger than before.
Steamboats pg 217 Robert Fulton’s steamboat was a major success and unlike the roads on
land, they didn’t need much work. The War of 1812 obviously halted the development of trade in
the rivers of the US, but once that was all solved, steamboats would travel up and down the
rivers carrying cargo, and helped the agricultural trade between the West and the South to the
East .
Vetoing Internal Improvements pg 218 As we discussed, the economy of the US was still kind of
not doing so hot, mainly because of a lack of infrastructure. It was apparent when the British
blockaded American trade in the Atlantic, which greatly stifled the American economy, and there
was a demand for this issue to be fixed. Representative John C Calhoun proposed a bill that
would use funds owed to the government by the Bank to be instead used to fix internal
problems. Seems great right? Presiden Madison would agree, but he vetoed the bill, why? He
argued that congress simply didn’t have the power or money to do such a thing, and argued that
state governments and private enterprises should be the ones to fix these issues instead.
Reasons for Westward Expansion pg 218 Put simply, the US had way too much to gain by
moving west. By moving west, not only did the US gain obviously more land, but they also
diversified the economy while simultaneously improving it since it cost so little to fund the
expansion. It also gave way to more cultures in the US, which we know today to be one of the
core values of the modern US and a reason why the US is so successful.
The Factor System pg 218 The Factor System was another way that the US intended to push
the Indigenous peoples out of their homes to make way for White settlers. This system would
have government factors(agents) supply tribes that were kicked out of their homes for a cost.
This solved 2 problems, now Indigenous peoples were more willing to leave(but that’s really
because of the guns and numbers of the White settlers), and also kicked out Canadian traders
from the area, therefore strengthening the American domestic economy.
Cotton and the Expansion of Slavery pg 219 Cotton economy was booming in the South.
Because of this high demand for cotton and the fact that cotton was so lucrative, many
Southerners moved west, making plantations pop up with them, making the cotton market
larger…and also the slave population larger.

[PAGE 66]
Astor’s American Fur Company pg 219 Thanks to the expansion West by the US, a large fur
industry had popped up in the Western territories of the US. John Jacob Astor had a fur
company based in Astoria (clever ass name) in Oregon, but sold it once the War of 1812 came.
After the war ended he moved into the Rockies and further up the Missouri River.
Why did the purple change out of no where? Wait no thats a different person nvm no way??
Real 3 am skibidi toilet ohio rizz fr fr ong no cap on ja based sigma reddit 100
The Fur Trade and the Market Economy pg 219 Originally the fur trade was just buying shit from
American Indian tribes then reselling them, but many white fur traders began moving in and
hunting on their own, expanding West into what is now New Mexico and Utah. US fur traders
who lived in areas with more Indigenous and Mexican populations also tended to live in a more
friendly relationship with their neighbors, with ⅔ US trappers marrying women of Indigenous or
Mexican backgrounds in the West.
Stephen Long’s Expedition pg 220 Stephen H. Long, fueled by the fervor of the Western
territories that many of the East Coast city folk didn’t know about led an expedition in 1819 to
1820 with 19 soldiers up the Platte and South Platte rivers in heat is now Nebraska and Eastern
Colorado, returning along the Arkansas River and what is now Kansas. This allowed the US to
have a better understanding of these Northwest areas for later settlement.
The Virginia Dynasty pg 221 ‘The Virginia Dynasty’ referred to how since 1800, all presidents
were Virginians, Thomas Jefferson, then James Madison, and then James Monroe as secretary
of state, (and later president) but this was all backed up by the fact that they were voted on. This
was also because the Federalist party was basically dead at this point and the Republicans who
happened to have a good number of Virginians were the strongest(and basically only) party at
the time.
Monroe’s Goodwill Tour pg221 James Monroe became president when he was a 61 year old
with service as a Revolutionary soldier, diplomat, and cabinet officer under his belt, with literally
no competition because as said before, the Federalist party was gone, the War was over, and
the US was entering a period with little to no challenges. James Monroe wanted an American
government that was not divided with constant factional disputes, and he attempted to do so
with his selection of cabinet, choosing Federalist John Quincy Adams for Secretary of State. He
chose John C Calhoun to be secretary of war after Henry Clay the Speaker of the House
declined the offer. James Monroe was one of the first since 1800 to actually include not only
yes-men in his cabinet, and was reelected in 1820 since again, the Federalist party didn’t exist
anymore.
Monroe Doctrine(I put this here) The Monroe doctrine basically said “screw you” to any
European states attempting to stretch their influence in the West, allowing for the US to have
free reign to do whatever they wanted in the continent. The reason this was issued was literally
so that the US could feel more independent, they still hated the idea that they were the UK’s kid.
Isnt the monroe doctrine a little lower like page 225

[PAGE 67]
All you need to know for it should be what it is i think becuase that what it asked me
The Seminole War pg 221 (the Seminoles are badass trust) Andrew Jackson, commander of the
American troops in the Florida area was sent to capture territory for the Americas, which was
controlled by the Seminole tribe at the time. Andrew Jackson being the violent asshole he is,
immediately took to invading the Seminoles, starting the Seminole War. Andrew Jackson started
off his invasion of the Seminoles by seizing 2 Spanish forts and hanging 2 British subjects .
Yeah. Real smart dipshit. John Quincy Adams was now forced to deal with the fact that this
irrational shithole was doing absolute lunacy in the South, and instead of condemning the
general, he urged the government to take responsibility, and reassured that the Spanish had all
the rights to defend themselves. Now what does this REALLY mean? Quincy Adams saying this
REALLY means that BECAUSE the Spanish had the right to defend themselves against Andrew
it was the Spanish’s fault for not simply repelling Jackson’s forces, so basically saying “skill
issue”. This gave Jackson the confidence he could take the rest of Florida by force, and was
very tempted to do so, as was Quincy Adams.
Adams - Onis Treaty pg 222 Uh so apparently this guy named Adams Onis just came out of
NOWHERE, the textbook literally has never told us about him ONCE, so yeah. We can assume
Onis was the person responsible for the forts in the Florida area. Onis knew that the Americans
were going to easily take the Florida territory, and they ceded all of the Spanish land in Florida
to the US, and in exchange the US gave up its claims to Texas.
Boom and Bust pg 222 All of a sudden, there was a massive demand for American agricultural
goods (probably because the Atlantic was now war-free and the US could easily look to trade
with their European customers). Due to this demand for American land for farming, land prices
went through the roof. In order to accommodate this, the Bank of the US started going crazy on
the loans, and when too many loans are given out, not all of them are paid back in time. This
was the bust part.
Tallmadge Amendment pg 222 Woo! New state! Yeah! Missouri! Missouri immediately got going
with…slavery. Despite the fact that the US really wanted slavery gone, Missouri wanted slavery
for…reasons. James Tallmadge Jr, a Rep of New York proposed an Amendment that would
prohibit new slaves into the Missouri area, which would spark a ton of anger from the Missouri
free Whites. This is important because it shows just how divided the US was on the topic of
slavery. The US always introduced free and slave states in pairs, with 11 free and slave states
to balance each other out. Missouri being introduced on its own as a free state upset the
balance and made the South really mad. (this won’t have devastating consequences surely)
Missouri Compromise pg 222 Along with Missouri, Maine was also to be a new free state. Henry
Clay told the house that if they had both Maine and Missouri be free states, they would make
sure to block one of the states from statehood until one was made a slave state, which made
the Senate agree to having Missouri as a slave state, and Maine a free state.
Dartmouth College v Woodward pg 223 This case was a case in which Republicans who had
recently gained control of the New Hampshire state government tried to make Dartmouth

[PAGE 68]
College a state university from a private college. Daniel Webster, a Dartmouth graduate, argued
that the college remain private, arguing that the charter the college was given so long ago by
King George III was a formal contract, and according to legend, brought some of the justices to
tears by saying “It is, sir…a small college. And yet there are those who love it.” Don’t really see
how that’s super emotional for the justices that never went to college but sure. The court ruled
that Dartmouth stayed a private college. But MORE IMPORTANTLY, the case placed restrictions
on the ability of the state government to control private corporations.
Confirming Implied Powers 224 In McCulloch vs Marshall in 1819, Marshall confirmed some
“implied powers”. This court case was really over the fact that a lot of people did not like the
state bank, and it brought along 2 questions, 1. Could congress actually create a bank 2. If a
bank was created by congress, could it be banned or taxed by the state? To answer these
questions, the court confirmed that yes, congress could create a bank, and that no, banks would
not be able to be taxed by the state, because, as Daniel Webster, a bank attorney argues, the
state could “tax it(the bank) to death”.
Establishing Federal Primacy 224 the John Marshall-led court established the federal
government OVER the state government in financial affairs and the economy. Some actions that
were taken were protecting corporations, private economic institutions from local(state)
government intervention. THIS HERE is an example of the nationalism that was presented and
practiced at the time. Keep in mind the nationalism that you should be thinking about when
talking about this time period is the change between politicians wanting people to think about
the country rather than their state .
Worcester v Georgia 224 At this time if you remember, there is a BIG BIG push by the US to
make way into Indigenous territory and take all their land because more land = more money.
Worcester vs Georgia was a case in which the state of Georgia wanted easier access to the
Cherokee lands in order to, well, kick them out and build farms over the land that they just stole.
The court ruled in favor of the Cherokee people and decided that in order for any attempts to be
made into Cherokee land, it would have to be approved by the government, even going as far
as to recognize the Cherokee and all Indigenous groups as individual groups.
Then Andrew Jackson comes along, uno-reverses everything and now the Cherokee take a
really long deadly hike on a trail.
Revolution in Latin America 225 Latin American people were revolting against their British and
Spanish rulers. Nothing else is said. That’s it. Yep. Thanks textbook.
The Monroe Doctrine 225 A Policy (Made by John Quincy Adams btw) that declared that the
American Continents (Both North and South) were not to be colonized by any European
powers . The US would consider any attempt to colonize the Americas as a threat against the
US.
ALSO US will not interfere with European Affairs

[PAGE 69]
American Fears 225 This policy came out of the Fear that Spain’s European Allies would assist
Spain in an attempt to Recolonize the Americas. Americans also feared that Britain would
conquer Cuba (WHAT???????), and wanted Spain to keep control of Cuba until it fell to the
Americans (They thought it was gonna happen fr). The Monroe Doctrine was an important
expression of a growing American Nationalism.
New Political Divisions 226 In 1816, there were no more Federalist candidates, officially ending
the Federalist party once and for all (this is like the fourth time the textbook has said this
bullshit). The Republican party, one that had once strongly opposed centralization and economic
growth now did nothing but support those very ideals.
End of the Caucus System 226 AYO??? The Caucus System was a system used by parties to
choose their presidential candidates. The system would have only congress members part of
that specify party vote on who their candidate would be. So we can just kind of infer from the
term that the Caucus System met its demise in the election of 1824, in which “King Caucus” was
overthrown
Election of 1824 226 Andrew Jackson, a nobody who only had a brief stint in congress and had
basically nothing but military experience somehow won the presidential election with 99 total
electoral votes, with John Quincy Adams trailing with 84 votes. The 12th Amendment demanded
that the House of Representatives would choose amongst the 3 candidates with the highest # of
electoral votes. The House of Reps chose Adams, which made Jackson supporters really really
angry.
Tariff of Abominations 227 name goes hard - President Quincy Adams created a bunch of tariffs
on imported goods. Originally, this was because the British were flooding the market with cheap
textiles, but Adams had to tax a bunch of other stuff to gain support in middle and western
states. However by doing this, Adams basically said “screw you” to people in New England, who
now had a bill that helped prevent competition (yay) but now also made other actually important
stuff they were importing even more expensive (boo). People in the south really really really
hated this bill, giving it the name “Tariff of Abominations)
Jackson Triumphant 227 The new landscape of American politics had started to take place,
those who supported John Quincy Adams were considered National Republicans, while the
supporters of Jackson were considered the Democratic Republicans. Most of Adam’s followers
were all the few Federalists that remained, while most of Jackson’s followers were lower class
working folk. Both sides vehemently despised each other, with Adams side calling Jackson a
murderer and his wife a hoe (the former being completely correct). Jackson won the popular
vote and the electoral vote, making him the president. Wahoo.
READING QUIZ#7 INFO STARTS HERE

[PAGE 70]
Jackson’s Inauguration 230 Jackson, being the extremely popular president he was, even
dubbed “the people’s president”. On his auguration, Jackson held an open reception at the
white house, in which a mob basically destroyed the place.
Broadening the Franchise 231 Before Jackson, in most states only TAX-PAYING and
PROPERTY OWNING free white males could vote, but Jackson made sure that it was ANY free
adult white male that could vote.
The Dorr Rebellion 231 Rhode Island was still pretty behind however. Only around half of the
free adult white male population was able to vote, mainly due to the state government’s refusal
to follow the new trend. In 1840, Thomas W Dorr and a group of his followers formed a
“People’s Party” drafted a new constitution, which was overwhelmingly approved by the people,
but the state legislature still didn’t agree to the new constitution, but instead of just saying
“nuh-uh” to the People’s Party, legislature made a new constitution and had the people vote on
that or the constitution that Dorr presented, which was narrowly defeated by Dorr’s constitution.
So all is good right? WRONG! (sulfuric acid!) Now there are two governments in Rhode Island,
both claiming themselves the legitimate one. This results in Dorr and his followers eventually
trying to take control of the Rhode Island state arsenal, which fails. Although the siege didn’t
work, what it did do was pressure the Rhode Island government into making a new constitution
that better suited the people.
READING QUIZ#6 INFO ENDS HERE
Democratic Reforms 232 Despite the fact that only free white male adults could vote, it didn’t
change the fact that there were some reforms being made in the voting field. For one, voter %
rose a ton, with formerly only 27% of free white male adults voting up to 58%. Secondly, voting
actually became important, with a lot of states adopting systems where the popular vote
mattered more than whatever state legislature deemed necessary.
The Second Party System 233 Prior to the 1820s, most people would agree that a party system
was evil and unfounded in the US political system, but over time many people came to agree it
was a very necessary part and should be welcomed in elections and so forth. This was also
sponsored by the current president Andrew Jackson, and 2 parties formed, the anti-Jacksons,
who were called Whigs, and Jackson’s supporters, the Democrats, which to this day is the
oldest standing political party.
President of the Common Man 234 ( N ot a term but i think it’s important to mention this ) Andrew
Jackson was very much the people’s president (if you are a free white male), arguing that all
people regardless of social class or region should be given the same equal rights, benefits, and
opportunities.
Right… Equal…

[PAGE 71]
The Spoils System 234 Jackson had a lot of people he did not like and wanted to take power
from, first on the chopping block being African Americans (with what little power they had),
which he did by stating that African Americans were dangerous and should be kept subjugated
to protect the free white male. Jackson then looked to get rid of entrenched (long standing)
office holders, who he argued were a bunch of old geezers and that anybody could become an
office holder, and that these positions belonged to everyday people. This resulted in over a fifth
of all office holders losing their positions, and was called the Spoils System.
Limited Nature of Democratic Reform 235 The Spoils system did a good job at limiting power in
certain positions, but it failed in what it ultimately tried to do, try to transfer this power over to the
people. Power that was once in the hands of officeholders and other politicians was instead
given to the political allies and associates of Jackson and his party members.
Nah dawg im feeling it ight big guy i see u
Calhoun’s Theory of Nullification 236 Calhoun’s Theory of Nullification was presented as a
possible solution to the issue of state succession. Inspired by the Virginia and Kentucky
resolutions, along with the 10th Amendment, John C. Calhoun, a 46 year old former
protectionist, argued that because the Federal government was created by the states, it was up
to the states to decide whether certain ones could determine whether or not certain policies
were constitutional or not. How this was done was by allowing states to veto certain Federal
laws and policies specifically for that state. This idea caught fire in South Carolina, but didn’t
help much with John’s popularity since Calhoun had a bigtime rival in Martin Van buren
Martin Van Buren’s Growing Influence 236 Former governor(resigned by choice) of New York,
Martin Van Buren was a Secretary of State instated by Andrew Jackson(meaning that by
default, Van Buren is popular by association). Van Buren had a MASSIVE influence on Andrew
Jackson, kind of acting like a puppet master, whispering into Jackson’s ear constantly (Van
Buren would contribute to making Jackson not like Calhoun, hence Calhoun’s unpopularity). So
how exactly did this Van Buren guy manage to get to such a spot? (the textbook makes a big
deal about it for some reason, so I think I might as well include it) BASICALLY there was this
MARRIED women named Peggy O’ Neale which Andrew Jackson and John H Eaton had affairs
with while they were senators in Tennessee. Word got out and now everybody was aware of the
affair. Peggy’s husband died in 1828, and she married John Eaton. Jackson tried to have John
H Eaton become secretary of state, which would also mean that Peggy would become a cabinet
wife, which nobody was down with for obvious reasons. The only one that really was was Van
Buren, so basically Van Buren dickrode his way into his powerful position.
State’s Rights versus National Power 237 This was an argument or debate over the power of
States to nullify laws. The book doesn’t really say much about the topic, but goes over debates
between Robert Y Hayne, who preferred State’s rights and Daniel Webster, who preferred the
power of the Federal Government.

[PAGE 72]
It’s later mentioned that Jackson favored the power of the federal government.
This whole point is kinda bad. But it’s here.
Nullification Crisis ( Another thing I think is good to mention)
As a result of the tariff of abominations (see above) and even more tariffs, the South Carolina
Legislature voted to nullify the tariffs and to forbid their collection in the state. Jackson thought
this was treason and tried to intimidate people with the army and warships. Jackson also tried to
force a bill that would allow for the military to enforce Congress’ laws. (this meant he was gonna
jump South Carolina fr)
Compromise 238 South Carolina was alone in its stand against these tariffs, and even then,
they were divided on if they wanted to commit to this “treason”. However Henry Clay would
devise a compromise to help avert this crisis. He suggested that tariffs would be lowered slowly
until 1842, where the tariffs would be the same level as those before the “tariff of abominations”.
This suggestion and Jackson’s forced bill (see above) went through on the same day.
Overall this whole crisis set a precedent that no single state could really challenge the Federal
Government
Changing Attitudes Toward the Indians 238 (You’d think the textbook would TRY to be respectful
but like…)
In the 18th Century(1700s), many people had considered Native people “noble savages”, as
they were intelligent enough to have a civilization. However by the 19th Century (1800s), Many
Americans shifted to a more hostile view of their Native neighbors. People were starting to drop
the “noble” part and just refer to Natives as “Savages”. White Americans really didn’t want to live
near these “Savage Tribes” (wow…) This led to beliefs of removal so that Americans could
settle on their valuable land.
Sauk and Fox Indians Defeated 239 (welp.) In the Northwest, if you remember, there is a BIG
BIG conflict over land between White US settlers and Indigenous Peoples. In this scenario, we
are talking about the Illinois area, with the Sauk and Fox Indigenous groups. Angry over the fact
that a rival Indigenous tribe had signed an agreement with the US seceding their land, Black
Hawk, a warrior, led an expedition into UNOCCUPIED AND VACANT territory, and basically
settled down there in protest. NOTHING WRONG? Right? Well, the White settlers took this as
an “invasion”, and would “defend their land” by sending in federal troops along with a militia in
order to “repel the invaders”. In this “defense” slaughtered basically anybody they could, even
going as far as to pursue the retreating Indigenous force across the Mississippi just to kill them.
A couple were captured and sent to Andrew Jackson in order to. Uh. examine?? (also Abraham
Lincoln was a captain leading the white militia but never actually partook in a battle)
Agrarian Tribes of the South 239 More troubling to the government in the 1830s were the tribes
remaining in the South. In western Georgia, Alabama, Mississippi, and Florida, what were
known as the “Five Civilized Tribes” resided. The five tribes, Cherokee, Creek, Seminole,

[PAGE 73]
Chickasaw, and Choctaw, were all established agricultural societies with successful economies.
The Cherokees in Georgia had formed a particularly stable and sophisticated culture, with their
own written language and a formal CONSTITUTION that created an independent Cherokee
Nation. They were more closely tied to their lands than many of the nomadic tribes to the north.
Removal Act 239 Andrew Jackson does not like the native people being annoying by living on
clearly American Land, so he decides to try and take their land through treaties. However this is
way too slow to satisfy the people who wanted to expand, so Jackson says “we ball” and passes
the Removal Act in 1830. This Act gave States the right to finance negotiations with tribes.
Many tribes were offered paltry sums of money for their land. Many tribes were too weak to be
able to fight off the Americans, so they left. Others (Cherokee) tried to stop white encroachment
through the Supreme Court, but Jackson just didn’t enforce the decision when it came out in
favor of the Native people.
Cherokee Resistance 240 Jackson Paid off a small group of Cherokee people for the Tribe’s
land, but the rest of the 17,000 Cherokee people thought the treaty was illegitimate and refused
to move. This led to Jackson sending 7000 people to drive them off by force…
Cherokee Removal 240 … And The Cherokee were forced into the Smoky Mountains or forced
to walk to Oklahoma in the Winter of 1838. This Trail of Tears was horrifying, as many died of
cold or hunger as they were forced onto the reservation.
Indian Removal 240 Thousands died before they reached Oklahoma. The Survivors never
forgot this terrible journey they were forced to undertake, and Jackson justified his actions by
saying that the Natives were now protected (FROM WHAT????).
The Cherokee were not alone on this trail, as all of the “5 Civilized Tribes” were forced to
relocate to Oklahoma - not a very good piece of land also.
The government saw the land the Natives were forced onto as unfit for habitation, and thus
there wouldn’t be white people seeking to settle there. (man this whole thing makes me
depressed)
The Seminole War (again) 241 The Seminoles in Florida were the only tribe to resist the
pressures to relocate, and even their success was limited. Like other tribes, the Seminoles had
agreed, under pressure, to a settlement by which they ceded their lands to the government and
agreed to move to a reservation within three years. (The 1832-1833 treaties of Payne’s
Landing). Most did move, but a substantial minority, under the leadership of Osceola, refused to
leave and staged an uprising. A group of runaway black slaves joined the Seminoles in their
struggle. This war went on for years, Jackson’s troops did little to suppress the uprising due to
the guerrilla warfare tactics the Seminoles and their African American associates employed.
Even after Osceola had been captured while under a flag of truce and died in prison, and even
after white troops had engaged in a systematic campaign of extermination against the resisting
Indigenous and their black allies, followers of Osceola remained in Florida. Finally, in 1842, the
government abandoned the war. By then, most of the Seminoles had been either killed or forced

[PAGE 74]
out west. But the relocation of the Seminoles,unlike other tribes, was never complete.
Something to note: the Seminole community in Florida has made a big rebound, and it is clear
that despite only a small number of Seminole survivors in the Florida area, they managed to
thrive in the area despite the wet marshes and harsh heat.
Alternatives to Removal 241 There were several ideas floatin
g around about what could be done that did not involve forcing people off their land. There were
many examples of White people and Native Tribes coexisting without murder and pillaging, such
as in New Mexico and California. However, financial gain and a want for land made coexisting
an unfavorable option for many Americans.
Jackson’s opposition to Concentrated Power 242
Jackson was willing to use federal power against States and against Native people, but was
very against concentrating economic power in the Federal Government and the “aristocratic
institutions” around it (the national bank) .
One example of Jackson’s view on Federal Power came when he vetoed a measure to pay for a
road in Kentucky. Jackson argued that this would solely benefit one state, because the road was
in Kentucky and not part of “interstate commerce”. He also saw paying for the road in general as
extravagant and unnecessary.
Nicholas Biddle 242 wtf is this name
Nicholas Biddle was the president of the Bank of the United States from 1823 on, and he was
very good at his job of making sure the bank would prosper and also be very stable. Good job
Biddle!
Unfortunately for Biddle, Andrew Jackson hated the national bank and wanted it destroyed at all
costs (why? idk.)
As Jackson is trying his best to destroy the Bank, Biddle is trying to grant factors to those who
he thought would help preserve the bank, like Daniel Webster. Webster, who was named the
director of the Boston Branch, would help get other important people like Henry Clay on board
with keeping the bank not destroyed.
Hard and Soft Money 242 A Debate between two groups who were both against the National
Bank
Soft Money people wanted more currency in circulation and believed that bank notes
unsupported by bullion (gold/silver) would circulate more currency for State Banks and their
Allies. They often believed in the rapid growth of the economy
Hard Money people believed that money was only valuable because it was backed by gold and
silver. They didn’t like the issuing of Bank Notes and believed in older ideas of public virtue
(WHY DOES THAT MATTER TEXTBOOK????)

[PAGE 75]
Jackson’s Veto 242 Clay, Webster, and other advisers persuaded Biddle to apply to Congress in
1832 for a bill to renew the Bank’s charter. That was four years ahead of the date the original
charter was scheduled to expire. Forcing a vote now would allow the Bank to become a major
issue in the 1832 national elections. Congress passed the recharter bill; Jackson, predictably,
vetoed it’ and the Bank’s supporters in Congress failed to override the veto. Just as Clay had
hoped, the 1832 campaign now centered on the future of the Bank.
Removal of Government Deposits 243 Determined to destroy the “monster” Bank, Jackson tried
to weaken it. He removed the government’s deposits from the Bank. His secretary of treasury
believed that such an action would destabilize the financial system and refused to do so, so
Jackson fired him. He then hired a new one, but this new secretary didn’t want to give the order
either, so Jackson again fired him. For his third secretary, Jackson hired Attorney General Roger
B. Taney, his close friend and loyal ally. Taney began placing the government’s deposits not in
the Bank of the United States, but in a number of state banks.
Jackson Victorious 243 Jackson had won a considerable political victory when he got rid of the
federal bank. This led to a fragmented and unstable banking system that would continue for a
century.
IMPORTANT SENATE WAS PISSED AND JACKSON GOT CENSURED which means
senate formally disagreed with him.
Charles River Bridge V Warren Bridge 244 This case involved a dispute between two
Massachusetts companies over the right to build a bridge across the Charles River between
Boston and Cambridge. One company had a long-standing charter from the state to operate a
toll bridge and claimed that this charter guaranteed it a monopoly of the bridge traffic. Another
company had applied to the legislature for authorization to construct a second, competing
bridge that would–since it would be toll free–greatly reduce the value of the first company’s
charter. In the end, Taney(idk his first name), speaking for the Democratic majority, allowed the
second bridge to be built. His reasoning was that states had the right to amend or abrogate a
contract if it is necessary to advance the well-being of the community. This decision reflected
one of the cornerstones of the Jacksonian ideal: that the key to democracy was an expansion of
economic opportunity, which would not occur if older corporations could maintain monopolies
and choke off competition from new companies.
SUMMARY: Charles River Bridge V Warren Bridge - Dispute over two Massachusetts
companies over the right to build a bridge across the Charles River between Boston and
Cambridge. Charles River Bridge Company claimed a monopoly based on its charter while
Warren Bridge Company wanted to build a free bridge. Chief Justice Taney ruled in favor of
Warren Bridge arguing that states could change contracts to benefit the public. It reflects
Jacksonian ideals of promoting economic opportunity and opposing monopolies.
Birth of the Whig Party 244 Jackson’s forceful, even tyrannical tactics in crushing the nullification
movement and then the Bank of the United States helped galvanize a growing opposition
coalition that by the mid-1830s was ready to assert itself in national politics. Denouncing the

[PAGE 76]
president as “King Andrew I,” they began to refer to themselves as Whigs, after the party in
England that had traditionally worked to limit the power of the king.
Democrats’ Emphasis on Opportunity 245 Democrats in the 1830s envisioned a future of
steadily expanding economic and political opportunities for white males(hmm i wonder why…).
They believed that the role of government should be limited, but it should include efforts to
remove obstacles to opportunity and to avoid creating new ones. This meant defending the
Union, which Jacksonians believed was essential to the dynamic economic growth they favored.
It also meant attacking centers of corrupt privilege, as Jackson himself said in his farewell
address, the society of America should be one in which “the planter, the farmer, the mechanic,
and the laborer, all know that their success depends on their own industry and economy.”
Summary: In the 1830s, democrats believed that white men should have growing economic and
political opportunities. They wanted a limited government that focused on removing obstacles to
success instead of creating obstacles. They supported preserving the union for economic
growth and opposite wealthy elite (corrupt privilege). In his farewell address, Jackson said
America should be a place where farmers and workers succeed through hard work
Whigs’ Call for Economic Union 245 The political philosophy that became known as Whiggery
was very different. It favored expanding the power of the federal government, encouraging
industrial and commercial development, and knitting the country together into a consolidated
economic system. Whigs embraced material progress, but unlike the Democrats, they were
cautious about westward expansion., fearing that it would create instability. Their vision of
America was of a nation embracing the industrial future and rising to world greatness as a
commercial and manufacturing power.
Whigs - different view. They wanted a strong fed gov, wanting industry, commerce and a
connected national economy. They supported economic progress but were cautious about
westward expansion because it would cause problems. Their goal - America = powerful,
industrial and commercial nation.
Anti-Masons 245 Both the Whig and Democratic politicians made frequent adjustments in their
public postures to attract the largest possible number of voters. For example, the Whigs in New
York worked to develop a popular following by making a connection to a movement known as
Anti-Masonry. The Anti-Masonic movement emerged in the 1820s in response to widespread
resentment against the secret, exclusive, and thus undemocratic Society of Freemasons. These
resentments grew when a former Mason, WIlliam Morgan, mysteriously disappeared(assumed
to be murdered) from his home in New York shortly before he was going to publish a book on
the secrets of Freemasonry.
Both the Whigs and Democrats often changed their positions to gain more voters. In New York,
the Whigs gained support by aligning with Anti-Masonic movement which began in the 1820s.
This movement opposed the secretive and exclusive Freemasons, who were seen as
undemocratic—especially after a former Mason, William Morgan, disappeared before revealing
their secrets in a book.
Cultural Issues 245 Religious and Ethnic Differences factored heavily into people’s party
preferences. Immigrants like Irish and German Catholics supported Democrats and their

[PAGE 77]
aversion to commercial development and entrepreneurial progress. They also favored the
Democrats’ family/community focused values.
Protestants favored the Whigs because of their constant development and improvement.
The Whigs would end up being more successful at defining its values and therefore attracting a
following. However the Whigs did not really have a leader and instead had 3 main guys that
people considered a group of leaders, consisting of Henry Clay, Daniel Webster, and John
Calhoun . Sound familiar? These guys have popped up here and there in the past couple of
terms.
Clay’s American System 245 Clay won support from many of those who favored his program for
internal improvements and economic development, what he called the “American System”. But
his image as a devious operator and his identification with the West proved to be serious
liabilities. He ran for president three times and never won(yikes).
Election of 1836 pg 246 The problems that emerged from this divided leadership became
particularly clear in 1836. The Democrats were united behind Jackson’s pick, Martin Van Buren,
but the Whigs couldn’t agree on a candidate. Instead, they sent three in hopes of gaining a
majority for their party. However, this plan failed, as Van Buren won with 170 electoral votes to
124 for all his opponents combined.
Distribution Act pg 246 Congress and the administration now faced the question of what to do
with the surplus Treasury. Reducing the tariff was not an option, as no one wanted to go through
that again. Instead, support grew for returning the federal surplus to the states. In 1836,
Congress passed a “distribution” act requiring the federal government to pay its surplus funds to
the states each year in four quarterly installments as interest-free, unsecured loans.
Panic of 1837 247 WAS THAT THE PANIC OF 37?????
In 1836, before 8th president Martin Van Buren came into office, Andrew Jackson issued an
order that would require all payment for public lands would only be paid in gold/silver or
currency backed by gold/silver. (NO WAY THIS IS LIKE THE SILVER DRAIN FROM AP
WORLD HISTORY)
This created an economic panic, where many banks and businesses failed, Unemployment
grew massively, and riots broke out in cities over the price of goods like Bread.
The Prices of things dropped massively, and many public works projects like Bridges failed.
Many States couldn’t pay interest on their bonds, and it caused the worst Depression in
American History at this point . What made this worse was the fact Europe was also having
some economic problems, so many European countries pulled their American Investments out.
This whole cluster of problems happened during Van Buren’s Democratic administration, and
therefore everyone blamed the Democrats. Van Buren did little to fix things, as he opposed
government intervention in the economies. The things Van Buren did do were very

[PAGE 78]
inconsequential, such as taking money to pay government debts and establishing a 10 hour
workday on all federal projects.
Van Buren would also end up creating a new financial system for the US, one that would be a bit
controversial…
Independent Treasury pg 247 Van Buren’s plan, called the “independent treasury” or
“subtreasury” system, was the most important and controversial of all of Van Buren’s legislative
achievements. It placed government funds in an independent treasury in Washington and in sub
treasuries in other cities. No private banks would have the government’s money or name to use
as a basis for speculation; the banks and the government would be “divorced’. This plan failed
to pass in the House, but in the last year of his presidency, it was finally passed by Congress.
New Techniques of Political Campaigning 248 The 1840 campaign was the first in which the
new “penny press” carried news of candidates to a large audience of workers. It also showed
how the concept of party competition and the subordination of ideology to immediate political
needs had been fully established in the US. The Whigs represented the affluent elements of the
population, and favored policies that aided businesses. Yet they presented themselves in 1840
as the party of the common people, and so did the democrats. Both parties used the same
techniques of mass voter appeal, and, in the end, the Whigs won. The 1840 campaign was the
first to use the "penny press" to reach many working-class voters. It showed that party
competition often mattered more than ideology. Both Whigs and Democrats claimed to
represent the common people, even though the Whigs supported the wealthy and business
interests. Using techniques such as slogans, songs, rallies and penny press, they won!
(Read the section I’m too lazy to explain how the Whigs won) hi too lazy to explain how the
Whigs won im ryan.
Whigs Break with Tyler pg 249 Basically, Tyler was now the president due to Henry Harrison
dying of pneumonia. John Tyler was a former democrat who had left the party, but his political
views still sided with that of the Democrats. Tyler became part of the Whigs, but his refusal to do
pretty much anything the party wanted him to do, he was read out, and his cabinet all resigned.
Former democrats took their places, led by a man named John Calhoun. (Jesus Christ the
Johns are taking over). A new political alignment emerged from this. Tyler and a small group of
conservative Whips were preparing to rejoin the democratic party.
William Henry Harrison dies of pneumonia. John Tyler becomes president but refuses to follow
Whig policies and aligns more with the democrats. The party expels him and his cabinet
resigns. John Calhoun and some former democrats replace those cabinet members. Leads to a
new political alignment - Tyler and conservative Whigs moving back towards the democratic
party.
And that’s it for the week! Have fun…
SAQ TIME BABY YAHOO
There is no SAQ this year, DO NOT BE TRICKED

[PAGE 79]
That should be it right?? Shirley
Wahoo! Gj guys
Yup
Bro do you know how to spell surely?? Yes, shirley
75 pages yippee!!! Wahoo!
Well. we have to get to like page 290.
I spent the ta period playing star rail until now me when
Ryan just get the vocab listed for now dont actually do any unless u wanna
bonesaw
The Penny Press (not a term but seems important) 250 There was a shift in the meta for
newspapers that started when the New York Sun was published on September 3, 1833. This
was meta changing due to the fact that the newspaper covered very trivial local news (crime,
sex?(textbook moment) and violence). It also cost a penny. Neat!
This would be the start of a new America where newspapers became very cheap, and also very
popular for people to get their information from. This would affect a lot of American Society, such
as the Economy and even Politics, as people are more informed and understanding about the
world around them. Except not that last one, most of the people reading these things are white
men and they like reading about how black people and women are worse than epic white men.
Tldr papers become cheap people more informed but people still racist and sexist
The Caroline affair 250 In 1837, some parts of Canada rebelled against the British, and some of
the rebels hired the AMERICAN ship Caroline to ship supplies for the rebels. The British then
seize the Caroline and burn the ship, where one American ends up dying in the whole scuffle.
The british refused to compensate for the American Ship and apologize for the death of the
American. Americans then arrested and tried some Canadian guy in court, which pissed off
britain. The Secretary of State was powerless to pardon the guy because of some state laws or
whatever, so the Jury had to acquit the guy or else… War! Wow that was close.
Aroostook war 250 At the same time, groups of Canadians and Americans moved into Maine.
However the local Aroostook people were not very happy with their land being taken (unheard
of). The fights between the Aroostook and Canadians/Americans was referred to as the
Aroostook war.
Webster-Ashburton Treaty 251 A Treaty that negotiated the border of Maine and Canada. The
New border gave the US a lot of disputed territory and protected a lot of trade routes. This
helped defuse Tensions between the Americans and Canadians.

[PAGE 80]
Treaty of Wang Hya 251 - After the opium wars, Britain very nicely asked China to open up to
trade by force. AMerica wanted to get in on this very nicely obtained free trade, and the Treaty
of Wang Hya gave Americans the same rights as the British when trading in China. It also
allowed for Americans who commit crimes in China to be tried by American Courts. (hmmmmm)
Jackson’s Legacy 252 President Andrew Jackson left a massive impact on America that can
still kinda be felt today. Through his tenure, American land expanded and the Party System
became institutionalized by the Government. It would help to serve as another system of checks
and balances for the government. Jackson also made great efforts to both weaken the
aristocracy and Federal government’s economic power, such as when he destroyed the National
Bank. Jackson also confronted one of the greatest challenges to the US of the time in the
Nullification Crisis.
Jackson also pissed off a lot of people, and the Whig party gained power through challenging
and criticizing Jackson.
Regional Divergences 255 As we know already, the Northern and Southern states are pretty
different. However, around the 1800s, these differences started to really show and become
important. The Northern states developed industrial economies dominated by cities and
industry. In the South, states focused on resources and agriculture in cash crops. Crops like
cotton became important to the economies, as Northern Textile factories needed cotton to well,
make textiles. The South remained much less developed economically, and the southern states
became more and more reliant on Slavery to keep up with production to support the North.
Reasons for Population increase 255 The American Population was only 4 Million in 1790. By
1830, This population was 13 million, up to 17 million in 1840.
But WHY, RYAN????
Well, during this time, health science really really really improved by a lot. People were affected
by diseases like malaria less and epidemics were less common. In addition, America had a very
high birth rate of like 6.14 kids per family. Wow! In addition, many people immigrated to the
Americas from Europe. Most Immigrants went into the North, where they lived in cities.
Rapid Urbanization pg 256 As mentioned above, many immigrants moved into cities. This,
along with the growing industries in the North led to the rapid growth of Cities. The booming
agricultural economies also led to urban growth as cities benefited from locations near major
rivers. In addition, the population overall was just growing.
Surging Immigration pg 259 Holy Redundancy batman! Yeah, Between 1840 and 50, 1.5 Million
Europeans moved to America. And again, most moved to the North, and only like 500,000
immigrants lived in Slave states in 1860. Many of of these immigrants were..

[PAGE 81]
German and Irish Immigrants 259 German and Irish! While people did come from England,
France, Italy, Scandinvaia, Poland, and Holland, Most of the Immigrants came from Ireland and
Germany. People came from Germany due to the industrial revolution and it’s consequences…
(uh.) While people came from Ireland due to the fact that Ireland was ruled by Britain, who was
not a very fair and just leader to the Irish people. In addition, the devastating Potato Famine led
many to leave Ireland in search of a better life.
Many German Immigrants became merchants or farmers, while many Irish became unskilled
laborers. Why the difference? Germans often came to America with money and some skills,
while many Irish came to America with literally nothing. Also, many Germans immigrated as
families, while many Irish immigrants were single women
SIDE NOTE: NATIVISM
Not mentioned, but not everyone was happy with Immigrants. Some people were happy
because immigrants served as a cheap source of labor, people to sell land to, and people to sell
goods to. Immigrants in some states like Wisconsin could become voters after like a year and a
declaration of seeking citizenship. However some people were not as accepting, creating the
idea of “nativism” Nativism is basically xenophobia but it sounds nicer. Many Nativists argued
that immigrants were inherently inferior to natural-born Americans. This is despite the fact many
of these people are the children of immigrants but oh well. So now the list of people
discriminated against is African Americans, Women, Indigenous people, AND Immigrants.
But Why were these people xenophobic? Well, Immigrants were often seen as lazy due to living
in slums (they were poor smh), and also because they were “taking jobs” (willing to work for less
because they are poor and need work to live). Some people feared that Irish people would like,
turn the US into CatholicLand or something idk i skimmed this part. Also, People were afraid of
radical political ideas from Immigrants
Native American Party 262 Out of Xenophobia and Racism alone, a new secret society was
created. The Native American Association, mostly composed of white Northeasterners, was the
first created in 1837. Later in 1850, a bunch of these organizations created the megazord, I
mean the Supreme Order of the Star Spangled Banner.(this sounds racist already if i heard this
with no context) This was a group that endorsed stuff like making it harder to become a citizen
and preventing catholic or Immigrant people from holding office. The order was very serious
about being a secret society, so they used the passphrase “I know nothing” to identify each
other
The Know-Nothings pg 262 Well apparently these guys suck at keeping secrets, because
people refer to these guys as the “Know Nothings”. Gradually, the Know-Nothing racist gang
tries to become a new political organization called the American Party. They do really well in the
East in places like Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, and New York, but not really too well in the
West because of the large amounts of immigrants there (HMMMMMM). After 1854, the group
kinda fizzles out and dies.

[PAGE 82]
READING QUIZ#8 INFO STARTS HERE
Steamboats 263 Someone else can do this one. I will leave this image here to sum it up. This
image perfectly describes the topic.
I don't think i used the template right.
Economic Advantages of canals 264 Canals are better because they create jobs for the
government, as people need to, well, make the canal. In addition, Canals often ended up paying
for themselves once they were built, as the convenience and time saved traveling on them was
worth the toll money.
The Erie Canal 264 The Biggest Infrastructure Project in the US so far, the Erie Canal stretched
from Lake Erie to places like New York, Washington DC, and even The Ohio River. It was an
immediate profit, and the entire thing was paid for by itself in 7 years. The Canal gave New York
City Access to places like Chicago and the west. It also made immigration westward even
easier and more profitable, as goods can be shipped faster now.
Technological Basis of the Railroad 265 The English had the Stockton and Darlington Railroad
which was the first public transport railroad. Some American Entrepreneurs especially in the
Northeast, found interest in this and in 1830 the first railroad (Baltimore and Ohio)in the US was
built and a year later another railroad in NY was built. By 1836 thousands of miles of railroad
had been built, but did not have a railroad system. They almost never connected and if they did
they had different widths. (caused a lot of accidents and crashes)

[PAGE 83]
Competition between Railroads and canals 266
Canal companies hated railroads (probably cus they were getting replaced). The Cheasapeak
and Ohio Canal Company blocked progress of the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad(first railroad). If
they werent fighting each other railroads would have been a lot more efficient and likely would
have benefited both.
Other Railroad Stuff (not a term but idk)266 By 1840 most canals were replaced by railroads
which were more efficient and more versatile with where you could go. From 1840 to 1850 the
amount of railroads tripled from 3000~ to 9000~ miles of railroad in 10 years and became the
best form of transportation in the americas. Most of the railroads were in the northeast
Consolidation 266 (the action or process of making something stronger or more solid.)
Big switch from shorter railroads to much longer railroads(AKA Trunk Lines). There are 4 major
ones just mainly connecting the northeast and northwest. Through the new connection with the
west was the rise of Chicago; Chicago became the rail center for the west. With the new
addition of all these new Trunk Lines was the decrease of use of water lines such as the Erie
Canal(NY) and the Mississippi River. Because of the decrease in dependence on the
Mississippi river, the Northwest started to lose connection with the South.
In 1850 private investors and the government all contributed capital because they all wanted
railroads to assist them. Also in 1850 Senator Stephan A. from Illinois and some other
politicians asked congress to grant Illinois land to spread railroads to the gulf of mexico.
Afterward other states also asked for land grants and by 1860, 30 million acres were granted to
states.
The Telegraph 266 Invented in 1844 by Samuel F.B. Morse, the Telegraph is a major invention
allowing for almost instant communication from one end of the country to the other. In addition,
the low cost of setting up wires made the Telegraph even more convenient. Most of the
Telegraph lines would be managed by the Western Union Telegraph Company.
The Associated Press(AP) 266 In 1846 it was a better news source than any one existing at the
time and had more reliable information and spread of that information. This helped spread Major
metropolitan newspapers in the northeast(NY). Journalism becomes a major part of the US

[PAGE 84]
being a way for information about events globally and nationally but the AP also feeds into
Sectional Discord.
Fueling Sectional Discord 268 UHHHH WHAT?? THE TEXTBOOK LITERALLY SAYS
NOTHING. Except that the North has more Newspapers that are also more accurate than the
South????? That’s it?? ok . Well, there’s a little more to that. It was the rise of journalism that
led to more sectional discord, and since most of the popular newspapers and magazines were
in the North, it reinforced the South’s sense of being put under the North’s control. The south
had no real response to the north’s powerful media, as just two of the North’s newspapers
combined had more circulation than all of the daily newspapers in the south combined.
READING QUIZ#7 INFO ENDS HERE
Impact of the Market Economy 268 By the middle years of the 19th Century(1840s-1860s?) was
the start of the development of a modern capitalist economy. The emergence of this new
economy allowed an increase in wealth across the nation, but this didn't affect every place
equally because some classes and regions benefited more.
Advantages of the Corporation 268 Due to an increase in capitalist merchants and also the
many laws passed to sponsor business and corporations given by states, such as giving
charters to companies for just a small fee. New laws also made investing a lot more risk-free.
This was done through a limited-liability policy in which investors only lost the money they put
into investment, rather than more than they invested in companies.
Inadequate Credit 268 In order to fulfill the financial needs of these up and coming corporations
and businesses, corporations needed credit alongside individual investment since investors
alone couldn’t pay for much. Many state governments had pretty shitty credit systems that didn’t
help much or did not guarantee money that is to be loaned to either be paid back or paid in the
first place, and as a result banks turned to issuing a lot of bank notes. Why is this ‘inadequate’?
Well because when you have banks not issuing actual money and instead issuing a bunch of
‘notes’ that simply secure money that might not actually be available, what ends up happening
is depressions, in which people who expect their money don’t get that money. When people are
given a guarantee or promise of money, they tend to spend a little more than what they normally
do leading up to that promise of money, resulting in economic depression. Such is the case with
the Roaring 20s leading up to the Great Depression. This is why it is important to have a strong
credit and currency system, along with working banks.
早上好中国！现在我有冰淇凌！我很喜欢吃冰淇凌！
Transformation of the Shoe Industry 269 The rise in popularity of factories in the 1820s caused
it to spread to the American Shoe Industry. Shoes were still handmade but many workers were
brought together to do each task of making the shoe separately. They would also produce

[PAGE 85]
identical shoes, with no difference in size or the left or right shoe and these aspects all would
increase efficiency of production
From 1840-1860 the factory system increased rapidly: In 1840 the value of manufactured goods
was $483 million and over doubled by 1850 with over $1 billion. By 1860 it almost doubled again
with close to 2 billion matching the value of agricultural products
The Industrial Northeast 269 ^-^ the northeast had over half(74,000/140,000) of the total
number of manufacturing establishments in the US and the Northeast had much larger
establishments that produced over 2/3 of American goods. From 1.3 million people, 900k of
them worked in northeast factories(especially in New England)
Interchangeable parts 270 Interchangeability of parts revolutionized things like clocks,
locomotives, tools, ect. And later on will help with the inventions of the bicycle, typewriter and
sewing machine.(theres very little on this)
Technological Innovations 270 America at this time was a home to many inventions. In 1830 the
number of patented inventions was 550~ and jumped to 1000~ in 1850 and by 1860 it was
4800~.
In 1839 Charles Goodyear discovered a new way of vulcanizing rubber(making it stronger and
more elastic). Charle’s discovery leads to a major reason for the creation of the American
Rubber Industry.
In 1846 Elias Howe constructed the sewing machine which was improved after by Issac Singer
and the newly invented Howe-Singer Machine would then be used to manufacture clothing.
Transformation of American Agriculture 270 America’s agricultural technology and industry
began to boom as 90% of the American population was basically just farmers. More importantly,
these farmers were moving West into new territories with new land. This increased popularity in
farming led to an increase in farming technology, technique, infrastructure, and transportation
systems, all contributing to a massive increase in food production in the US. In addition, thanks
to the increased transportation, the US people no longer had to rely on food grown from their
own homes, and instead could import food domestically from Western states, and also import
from other countries along with their existing exports.
The Lowell System 271 oh boy what a cool new system! - The Lowell System relied on young
unmarried Women working in factories.
Created both as a response to the poor working conditions of Women in New England and also
because of the increasing amount of Women moving to cities, The Lowell System was a factory
system where Young Women basically got free food and SAFE shelter, and education and
church education and also got paid a lot. The Catch was that women had to work in factories
and basically live there. How neat!

[PAGE 86]
Women Workers 271 Women often found the transition from farm to factory work quite jarring,
and also the new environment led to a lot of loneliness and depression. In addition, many found
the simple and repetitive tasks of the factory really boring and tedious. However, it’s not like
Women had a lot of other options. THey weren’t allowed to do manual labor or travel, so this
was kinda it.
Decline of the Lowell System276 WHYYYYY I CRI EVERYTIM!!1!!!! - The problem with the
Lowell System was that it involved paying for the food, shelter, and education of a bunch of
people ALONG with wages. Factories that used this system had to cut costs, which meant the
quality of living + the wages went down. Uh oh!
Plus there were a few developments that made the Lowell System less viable in the Meta
- Domestic work for women got a buff, so many women were instead choosing to become
teachers or domestic servants
- Immigrants were added to the meta, and they were willing to work for a lot cheaper.
Economic Advantages of Immigrant Labor 277 Immigrants were great for the factory workers
and railroad companies, as they could do a lot of the mindless or hard labor jobs that were
needed, and for CHEAP too. There were a lot of immigrants, and people didn’t really like
immigrants, so Immigrants had to be willing to work for basically nothing if they wanted to work
at all.
Harsh Working Conditions pg 277 Because labor was so cheap now, Factory owners started
cutting costs in the Human and Safety departments. Factories were very loud, unsanitary, and
large. In addition, the Average workday was 12 Hours and people made like $10 a week at most
for white skilled workers. Some people were lucky to get PAID in the first place.
De Skilling pg 277 LITERAL SKILL ISSUE IN THE TEXTBOOK????? - The factory system
made life really hard for artisans and small business owners, as they could not compete with the
prices and production of Factories. To not get obliterated, many small businesses came together
to creat Labor unions to resist the new economic shifts.
National Trade Unions 277 She National on my Trade till I Union! Let’s talk about American
Industry . America Industry go bOOM! And now, there is very little need for artisans and skilled
workers since most of that stuff they make can be bought for little to nothing (albeit for a lower
quality). This led to the first Unions in the US in order to protect the jobs of these artisans and
skilled workers.
This early craft union movement fared poorly. Labor leaders struggled against some laws and
the panic of 1837 only made things worse.

[PAGE 87]
Commonwealth V Hunt 278 AN important ruling that basically declared that Unions were legal
organizations and that Striking was a lawful method of protest. However, the amount of
Immigrants willing to work for cheap made Striking pretty much useless for the time being.
Female Protective Unions 278 Many Worker’s unions didn’t include WOMEN because yeah.
However, women began to form their own unions, which shared in the fact that they had no
power like other Unions. These unions however DID serve as effective mutual aid organizations
for women’s rights groups and the like. (this sentence makes no sense but like)
America’s Divided Working class 278 The American Working class had very little power, and
couldn’t really change the status quo much, unlike in England. Like Mentioned earlier, the sheer
number of immigrants and their willingness to work for pretty much nothing made Striking
useless. Also, the Working class was busy being racist and anti-immigrant rather than focusing
on their employers and the poor working conditions they lived in. Also these factory owners had
a lot of political power anyway so…
Increasing Wealth Inequalities pg 279 The growth of the Economy boosted the average income
of a citizen, but this average was skewed as heck. So in like, a sample size of like 5, the
numbers went from (1 , 2, 2 2, 3) to like (1, 1, 1, 2, 256). Like the average went up, but like one
guy got all the money. Plus other people got poorer
Bad example aside,
Basically a majority of the people did not benefit from the growing economy, and only the rich
people who owned corporations or factories got real benefits from the new booming economy.
In addition, rich people in the US started gathering together, creating aristocratic clubs and
social rituals(island??), and building mansions and huh this is starting to sound familiar.
Central Park 280 Rich people wanted a place to flex, so they made a cool park. Designed to suit
the flexing and lives of the rich, the Park soon became an important part of New York City as
Whole.
The Urban Poor 280 With the growing amount of rich people, there was also a SIGNIFICANT
amount of people with literally nothing whatsoever. These people were often without anything to
their names, and depended on charity or crime to survive. THese people were often Immigrants
who failed to find work, or widows. Some people suffered from alcoholism or mental illness, or
others were discriminated against
African American Poverty 280 - If there was one minority group that had terrible lives in these
urban areas it was African Americans. Often descendants of Free slaves or were free slaves
themselves, African Americans had even less opportunity for jobs and no access to education.
They also couldn’t vote or had any social status.
Still better than slavery though.

[PAGE 88]
Social Mobility 281 Despite the past few topics suggesting that a class war was going to break
out or something, there were a few things preventing this from happening. Despite the overall
decline in economic position of people (wealth disparity), the overall standard of life for people
was at a net increase. More people had houses. And clothes. And food. And they could buy stuff
sometimes even!
There was a lot of mobility within the Working Class as well. People WERE able to make it rich
(very very very few), which gave people enough hope to keep on working in the factories. Often,
people could rise a noticeable amount in their lifetime, for example from an unskilled worker to a
skilled worker. These people could see their children or grandchildren moving farther up the
social ladder.
Yeah gonna stop here my fingers hurt a lot
Rapidly Expanding Middle Class 281 The growth of the economy and the growing industry led
to a lot of products being produced, and more people had the money to buy stuff, expanding the
middle class. Many people began to become merchants or engage in trade. Class began to
depend on money, rather than land . Middle Class families often lived in nice homes and many
people began to rent homes rather than buy them. Nah this is fine ryan
New Household Inventions 281 New home inventions like Stoves really made life more
convenient. That’s really it. Also the fridge is a thing now! Yeah! I love fridges!
Growing Class Distinctions 282 The differences between classes began to expand greatly due
to things like new houses and more goods being able to be bought. People could buy things like
curtains or furniture, or wall paper. In addition, houses started to become ways for people to
flex their wealth.
Declining Economic Role of the Family 282
Falling Birth Rates 282 Because people don’t have to worry about having kids to work the farm
and stuff anymore, the Birth Rate decreased a lot. In addition, the fact more people lived in
urban cities meant there was less space for a lot of kids. Also birth control started to become a
thing.
Female Education 283 As we all should expect, women were not granted the same privileges as
men in the field of education. Women despite being urged to have elementary education, were
discouraged to pursue higher education. And unfortunately, even if they did, many women’s
schools taught women how to be…better wives…
On a separate note, Oberlin College in Ohio I became the first college to accept female
students, permitting its first four in 1837. Oberlin upon accepting these 4 students received a ton
of backlash, namely from people thinking that the acceptance of women into the school system

[PAGE 89]
would cause romantic relationships between students which would hinder their studies (it really
didn’t). Luckily, Oberlin held true to their belief that female and male students could coexist on a
campus together learning the same curriculum, and held this belief true for the rest of its
existence.
New Roles for Women 283 Now that Americans had once again settled down and had no
reason to make a ton of money, women unfortunately lost their role as income producers for the
household, instead were often put in places as just mothers and wives. The textbook tries to
somehow paint this in a positive light, saying that because they lost their social role as income
producers they instead got to have “high value” cleaning and “entertainment” as well as being…
“dress[ed] elegantly and stylishly.” Which just sounds like they were… treated like trophies…
.
Women’s Separate SPhere 286 Women developed a significantly different culture from men in
America, such as super tight-knit friendships and social networks, along with literature being
super popular with women. Godey’s Lady’s Book became extremely popular during the 1800s,
and would talk about topics such as fashion, shopping, and homemaking. Politics and religion
were deemed inappropriate for women at the time, and this was also reflected in the magazine.
Again, the textbook does not do a good job painting this in a positive light, because what it’s
basically saying here is that women should be locked out of politics and religion ( it doesn’t
ever use any words to negatively denounce this fact). Fucked up honestly.
Benefits and Costs 286 WAIT WHAT THE FUCK IS THE BOOK COOKING HERE So what the
textbook here is saying is that this period in which Women were forced back into homes and
had their jobs taken and were basically fully isolated from the public world is one in which the
role that women played in homes was strengthened, therefore making women more publicly
powerful??? WHAT THE FUCK. If you want the “unbiased view of the textbook” though, here it
is :|... women became the main religious and moral educators of the home since they were often
the ones who spent the most time with children, and were “custodians of morality and
benevolence”. Along with this, because women were left at home all the time, they got to “live
lives of greater material comfort than in the past”. Which I mean…”sure”?? But at the same time
is that necessarily a good thing overall???
Working Class Women 287 As can be seen in the other terms here, women seem to be living
the average 1800s housewife lifestyle of doing nothing stay at home because uh…social norm.
And misogyny. Of fucking course. On the other hand, lower income brackets in the US often
required the wives of the house to also go out and seek work, specifically lower income jobs
similar to their husbands, this was due to the increasing living cost of America due to American
capitalism and the fact that these jobs simply paid so little, again, thanks to American capitalism.
Minstrel Shows 287 Leisure activities were generally reserved only for the rich in America, and
the average American only had Sunday off for religion and a break for the week. These

[PAGE 90]
Sundays were generally filled with middle class or wealthy people enjoying a broad array of
public spectacles, such as dramas, sporting events (such as the early Baseball), circuses, and
Minstrel Shows… which is… blackface… I don’t know why the textbook doesn’t give the term
here but I guess it’s just a textbook moment.
PT Barnum 287 isnt this guy like a really bad person? Yeah screw this guy
PT Barnum is a public entertainer who really popularized things like Circuses or Theaters. He is
known for his freak shows, populated by people with genetic deformities like dwarfism, siamese
twins, and also other entertainers like Magicians. Barnum was really good at convincing people
to see his shows, using eye-grabbing posters and elaborate newspaper articles. He also used
lectures where people told their stories of historical events or exotic places to capture the
audience
Rise of Commercial Agriculture 288 Agriculture as an industry became more and more like an
industry tied to American capitalism (if that doesn’t make sense, you can think of it as how the
tech market in California makes up a big portion of the Calfornian economy over manufacturing
in the California economy). Basically what this meant was that the agriculture market would
work in some parts of the US super well, and other parts not so well.
Truck Farming in the Northeast 288 Let’s get a little context out of the way: agriculture economy
in the Northeast is dead in the water. The Soil there is ass and there is no reason to farm there
when you can move to the Northwest and make so much more money there for half the cost.
This resulted in the “truck farming” economy in the Northeast. Because Northeastern folks saw
no reason to farm tobacco or cotton(cash crops) like they used to, they instead turned to
supplying cities with food, growing vegetables and fruit instead to be sold locally.
Industrialization in the Old Northwest 288 Because of the drop in agricultural markets in the
Northeast, most of the northeast started to go into industry. Some 209,909 workers were
employed in the North by 1860, and the number kept growing. Cleveland became an incredible
industrial center, as did Cincinnati with its meatpacking industry. But most importantly, Chicago
became the great metropolis of the region, with both agricultural machinery and meatpacking.
Agricultural Specialization 289 As said before, the agricultural industry in America became more
and more included in American capitalism, and as capitalism does, capitalism promotes
competition. Farmers in the Northwest(remember, Northeast no more farming) began to focus
on farming specific crops for profits, whether that be a crop like corn, wheat, or any sort of
livestock. (fun fact, corn is in 75% of all of our processed food, the only reason why Indiana
exists)
New Agricultural Technologies 289 Uh basically because of Agriculture being more and more of
a capitalist market, individual farmers and companies saw a need to improve their own tools for
farming. Farmers started to cultivate new varieties of crops that would grow a lot more resilient

[PAGE 91]
to nature and would also be larger(fun fact: did you know that modern day corn is not actually a
natural crop? It was one of the earliest forms of a GMO made by Indigenous American people),
import better (? In what way textbook) livestock from Europe, and improve on tools and
machines that American inventors were producing at the time.
McCormick Reaper 289 The McCormick Reaper is a farming technology that was invented by
Cyrus H Cormick to harvest a ton of wheat, and only required one worker to use it. He patented
in 1834 and made a factory for it in 1847 and started producing his invention in Chicago, and by
1860, more than 100,000 reapers had been sold. (dude reaper is such a cool ass name for a
farming device) The important thing to note for this term here is that it’s just a byproduct of the
demand from farmers for better agricultural technology which in turn was caused by agriculture
becoming increasingly involved in the American capitalist system.
Importance of Religion in RUral COmmunities 290 Religion brought farm communities together
more than any other force, since so many farm areas were populated by people of common
ethnic backgrounds. Churches were common meeting places for both services and social
events—most of them dominated by women. Even in areas with no organized churches, farm
families–and again, women in particular–gathered in one another’s homes for prayer meetings,
Bible readings, and other religious activities.
THIS MARKS THE PART WHERE THE SLAVERY CHAPTER STARTS
Decline of the Tobacco Economy 294 Tobacco was a staple crop that made money, but the thing
was that the Tobacco Market was unstable as heck. Tobacco could be worth a lot of money one
day, and be worthless the next. In addition Tobacco drained the land of nutrients, making long
term Tobacco Farming almost impossible. This caused many to search for a new crop that
wouldn’t drain the land and also be more stable.
Some States Like Georgia and Florida tried growing rice. However rice required lots of irrigation
and had a long growing season of 9 months. Sugar was too labor intensive, and only the rich
could afford to grow it.
Short Staple Cotton 294 The South found their new cash crop in Short Staple Cotton. Short
Staple Cotton was a hardier and coarser strain of cotton that survived in a lot of differing
climates and soils. It also had harder to pluck seeds, but the cotton gin made that problem
irrelevant. So everyone started growing this cheaper, hardier, (less soft :( ) and overall better
profit cotton.
Spread of Cotton Production 295 Of course since this cotton was easier to grow and cheaper,
everyone started to grow Short Staple Cotton. By the 1850s, Cotton became the main thing
sustaining the Southern Economies, producing 3 million Bales a year in 1850.The Cotton price
fluctuated from overproduction, but even still, the Cotton Economy grew and grew. By the Civil
War, Cotton was ⅔ of All US exports.

[PAGE 92]
Expansion of Slavery 295 Because Cotton was such a valuable crop, the amount of slaves in
the South increased to meet the demand and the need for labor. The amount of slaves in places
like Alabama increased tenfold from 41,000 to 435,000
Weak Manufacturing Sector 295 Despite all the Agricultural growth, other forms of economic
activity in the South were lacking. Manufacturing and Merchants were miniscule compared to
the value of raw cotton in the South. However, the brokers that helped sell cotton or the “factors”
were still important, as they connected farmers to buyers of cotton. They often also served as
bankers, providing farmers with credit. Many in the south were in debt, especially during
economic drops in cotton prices.
Inadequate Regional Transportation System 297 The South’s banks were extremely
inadequate, and credit seemed to be nonexistent, resulting in most planters being in constant
debt due to drops in the cotton market. Thus, planters became super reliant on the merchants
that bought their product. In addition, The South also had terrible transportation infrastructure, to
the point where even the advanced canal and road systems seen in the North couldn’t influence
the growth in the South. The only hope was a railroad system that was built in the South, but
was so sparse that it held no significant change to transportation in the South. w
De Bow’s Review 298 The South soon realized just how dependent they were economically on
the North. They bought all their products from the North and sold all their products to the North.
(mainly because, as said before, terrible infrastructure and also the fact that the South made no
efforts to open up any ports). De Bow’s Review was an article written by James De Bow which
discussed the idea of an economically-independent South, stating how the fees they paid to the
North was a resulting loss of “$100,000,000” (maybe a slight exaggeration). Ironically enough,
the article was also mainly produced in the North, since New Orleans had no printing press, and
had advertisements in the article from nothing but Northern manufacturing firms. This only went
to show just how economically dependent the South was on the North.
READING QUIZ#8 INFO ENDS HERE
Reasons for Colonial Dependence 298 You may ask now, why did the South not do anything to
actually facilitate economic independence? There is a multitude of reasons, for one, the main
economy of the South, the cotton industry made so much money for planters that they had no
real reason to care about the North. The fees were slightly annoying to pay but at the end of the
day most of the money they had was not needed. Another reason behind this is that a lot of
Southern planters didn’t have a lot of money that they were willing to invest. Sure they made a
lot of money, but that money was more like spending money, there wasn’t a lot of space that
planters made for investment projects. This is because of the slaves and land that they bought
leaving them with little to no money.
This is me when i have lots of cotton and not lots of investment money fr ong no cap

[PAGE 93]
Planter Aristocracy 298 The South, even for how poor it was overall , was dominated by
individual plantation owners which would have up to 40-50 enslaved while also owning 800 or
more acres of land. This was the “Planter Aristocracy” for just how much control was centered in
the hands of a couple people.
The Cavalier Image 298 Because of the differences between Northern and Southern White
Americans (namely in the department of industry), this led to the South feeling they were more
“refined” and “elegant” from their Yankee counterparts, and thus the “cavalier” nickname started.
How did no industry = more refinement? The textbook mentions this is mostly because the
Southern planters don’t have a big hardworking and manual labor culture, so they live lives of
leisure sponsored by the backbreaking labor of the enslaved population.
Plantation Management 299 (see “cavalier image” right above this term for context). The
Southern plantation life wasn’t all leisure (but it mostly was let’s be honest), and the whole
“cavalier” image was generally shattered by the fact that growing cotton and managing
plantations was pretty logistically tough (still not nearly as tough as the work that enslaved
people had to go through). Uhm. I have tried a decent amount while typing this section to be as
unbiased as possible (besides any portion with Andrew Jackson in it) but honestly I just can’t be
asked for this one. Why does the textbook feel the need to say “oOh the plantation owners
weren’t ALL just yacht trips and Europe travel”, like OF COURSE NOT EVERYBODY HAS TO
DO THEIR JOB. JEFF BEZOS STILL SPENDS 2 HOURS ANSWERING EMAILS BUT IT
DOESN’T CHANGE THE FACT HE SITS ON HIS ASS ALL DAY AND SPENDS HIS MONEY
LIKE A LITTLE CHILD. Like what is the point of this term??????? Who are you pleasing????
(oh my bad I forgot, Florida)
Aristocratic Values 299 The Southern planters often saw themselves buying into an idea that
they were more refined than the Northerners(as discussed before), and developed their own
culture about the “aristocracy” they were so proud of. Southerners would often have their
children work more “honorable” jobs than working as merchants or traders, instead opting to
have their kids go into the military (similar to when rich folks would send their kids off to be
knights in the medieval era).
Cult of honor 300 Rich White people developed their own code of honor in the south, and this
led to many duels when people’s egos got hurt too much. You could say that they fought For
Honor?????? Yifei Fung buy for honor. This differed greatly from the North, where people did
not fight to the death when they disagreed with people. In the South, Courtesy and acting
properly was a key part of society for the rich, which differs greatly from the terrible ways they
treated their slaves. Honor was also tied to the importance of public image or social statues.
This whole honor thing causes a lot of fights, like when the South Carolina congressman
Preston Brooks beat the shit out of Charles Sumner of Massachusetts because he thought he
insulted his relative. In the North, people were pissed, but in the South this guy became a hero.
As the book puts it, “Avenging insults was a social necessity”. Uh what? Wow this is like reddit
but real life.

[PAGE 94]
Subordinate Status of Women hei The “Cult of Honor” (see term above) also affected women in
the South. Men put emphasis on Whiteknighting themselves in defense of women. This led to
even MORE of a male dominant culture in the South, and as George Fitzhugh, a Southern
social theorist wrote, “women, like children, have but one right, and that is the right to protection.
The right to protection involves the obligation to obey.”
Other Burdens 301 It gets worse. Because of course it does. Women received even less
schooling than before, with 25% of all white women being completely illiterate, and many
schools in the south that were specifically designed for women didn’t teach GE at all, but
instead how to be a “suitable wife”... It gets EVEN WORSE. Infant mortality rate was super high,
and as such birth rates in the South were 20% higher than the North. In addition, plantation
wives who couldn’t bear like 10 kids in 2 years would often have to live with the fact that their
husbands would go ahead and have (non-consensual) sexual relationships with female
enslaved peoples on their plantations. So who wins in this situation? The male plantation owner.
Who loses? Everybody else.
Limited Educational Opportunities 302 In 1860, only 260 total colleges and universities
combined were in the south, with only 25,000 students enrolled in them, and most if not all of
them being of wealthy upbringing. Elementary schools in the South sucked ass and as a result a
large illiterate population in the South started growing. What did this cause? Well, if you haven’t
noticed, we have talked a lot about planters and plantation owners, but the vast majority of white
people in the South were actually independent smaller farmers. At most they would have 4-5
enslaved people and would often have to work with them as well as live with them, but most of
these independent farmers were not enslaved and would have to work the fields themselves.
The nickname they got was the “Yeoman”. I have no clue what this means. It sounds like a slur.
Hill people 302 Hill People were isolated non slave owning white families that would seclude
themselves, well, in hills and mountains. They prided themselves on their seclusion and
self-reliance along with hating the planter elite. They had virtually no access to modern society
or money, and as such they often traded for goods that they could not grow themselves.
COmmitment to Paternalism 302 Yeah so the whole uh “no women’s rights” thing? Still going on
unfortunately. Men dominated family structures in the Southern planting economy. Women and
children were seen as “labor and workforce” which is just ABSURD. This actually resulted in a
really strong pro-slavery propaganda because it was believed that if the North were to get rid of
Slavery, they would also get rid of the Patriarchy system put in place in the South. (just goes to
show how cooked the Southern ideals were).
Close Relations with the Plantation Aristocracy 302 As discussed before, the majority of the
White people in the South were actually non-slave owning farmers who made their profits also
by farming, just to a lesser extent. What resulted in this was a system in which the small
independent farmers relied on plantation owners for cotton gins and markets. In addition, a lot of
poor farmers would often be related to plantation owners somehow, resulting in tight-knit
communities.

[PAGE 95]
Limited Class Conflict 303 Despite the massive income gaps in the South, people found a way
to band together despite their social classes in order to make themselves feel better about
themselves and also feel unified, you guessed it, racism :)) I love how the textbook almost tries
to portray this as a GOOD THING.
Legal Basis of Slavery 303 So I don’t know what a “legal basis of slavery” is, but this should be
renamed to “Lack of rights for the Enslaved”, because this is really what this section is about.
Enslaved people had no legal rights to marry, in some states they could not learn to read and
write, congregate in large groups, leave without permission, be out after dark, strike a White
person even in self defense, and for resisting Slave Owners demands, they could receive a
death penalty. Also, if an enslaved person was killed during physical violence from their slave
owners, the slave owners could get off for free without any legal repercussions.
Reality of Slavery 303 I REFUSE to type this one out. If you want to read it yourself you can, or
if anybody else wants to do this one. H ey Kids! Did you know that despite all the torture, sexual
assault, and forced labor, slavery really wasn’t that bad? Some slaves could own property!
Some could even learn to read! Wow! Aren’t plantation owners so nice? And did you know that
slaves often had their autonomy? And their white owners worked really really hard too! They did
important stuff like supervising their workers.
Yeah the book aint cooking here at all wtf is this.
Task and Gang Systems 303 The Task and Gang system were the 2 systems used by plantation
owners to organize slaves to work. The Task system was one in which slaves were assigned
different tasks to do AMONG US , and the other more common system was the Gang system.
The Gang system was a system in which enslaved people were split into groups and were put
to work.
Special Position of women 304 Enslaved women generally had a lot harder of a time than their
male counterparts. This is because in addition to working the fields for the same amount of time
as the other male enslaved on a plantation, they also had duties of caretaker for children and
also the cooks for the family.
High Slave Mortality rates 304 Slaves had a much higher death rate when compared to their
White counterparts. This is due to the poverty and squalid conditions many slaves lived in.
Slaves died a lot younger than white people due to the inhumane working conditions.
AND THEN THE TEXTBOOK SAYS HOWEVER??????
ok the textbook says that some people believed that Slaves were treated better than peasants
in Europe and Northern Factory Workers. It also says slaves in the South were treated better
than slaves in the Caribbean and South America???? What?? That isn’t really a good thing…
The book then goes on to talk about how since cotton was such an important part of the
Southern Economy, slave owners had to actually care for their slaves since buying slaves was

[PAGE 96]
illegal at this point (but owning them isn’t i guess). Slave owners were also very very nice and
often waited until children were out of early adolescence before forcing them to do hard labor.
How kind!
What the hell is the book cooking
Ok actually an interesting point made in the book now, in some areas, Immigrants were treated
like slaves or even worse. Since buying slaves is illegal and expensive, slave owners were
motivated to keep their slaves alive. But there are a LOT of immigrants willing to work for cheap
and thus immigrants were considered more replaceable.
Overall I don't think the book is cooking in this part. uh.
House Slaves 305 Household servants had a bit of an easier life than those who tended to the
fields. Some slaves served as domestic workers; cooking, cleaning, and nursing children and
stuff like that. These people lived closer to their masters and often gotta eat the leftovers of the
family dinners. Very few slaves developed almost familial relationships with their masters, but
the Majority of slaves resented their isolation and their lack of privacy. They often were punished
much more severely due to their proximity to their owners.
Sexual Abuse 305 Enslaved females that would work in the houses of plantation owners were
often subject to unconsenting sexual relationships with the owner. This caused enslaved
females that had these non-consensual relationships to be often harshly treated by the
plantation owner's wife out of basically jealousy. This included just being physically abused out
of nowhere, increased workloads, and other various, as the book puts it, “psychological
torment”(s).
Autonomy of Urban Slaves 306 Enslaved people in the Northern cities were treated a lot
differently than their counterparts in the south. For one, enslaved people in the Northern cities
often were sent out in the city to do tasks by their masters, meaning they got a lot more time to
mingle with free African Americans and White people, which resulted in many enslaved people
seeing much reason to free themselves or request their freedom. In addition to this factor, slave
owners in the North started to see less of a reason to have an enslaved person in their home
when they could instead choose to hire a heavily underpaid Irish immigrant to work for them as
well, resulting in an increasing urge for slave owners to ditch slavery as a whole, adding fuel to
the fire that was the abolitionist movement in the North. In the South, if Slaveowners wanted to
get any work done in the city or the North, they would often send an enslaved person to that
location to do the work for them, after all, city work is not as ‘refined’ or ‘cavalier-like’ as farm
work. They would also hire enslaved people to do the work for them, often in fields such as
mining, lumbering, or in the case of female enslaved people, textile work. It is still important to
note that even if the abolitionist movement was in full swing in the North, the abolitionist
movement only supported the removal of Slavery as a system, not the unjust treatment of
African Americans. In fact, many abolitionists had the motive to still keep African Americans and
White Americans separated, and many abolitionists still had racist ideas.

[PAGE 97]
TIghtened Restrictions on Free Blacks 307 Due to the rebellions such as Nat Turner’s rebellion,
many white southerners feared rebellions from both slaves and free African Americans.
Because of this fear, laws were created to limit the rights of Slaves even more, to the point
where legally it was pretty much impossible to free a slave. In addition, other laws restricted
travel HEAVILY for Slaves and Freed African Americans alike.
Slave Markets 307 The Slave Trade contributed to the dehumanization of the Enslaved people
in America. Slave traders were often given upwards of $1.7k(big money in today’s terms) for
trips, and at a minimum 500$, and were mostly asked to transport enslaved domestically from
one end of the South to another. To transport enslaved peoples, inhuman methods such as
coffles were used to keep groups of Enslaved people together, and on top of that, families were
often separated, children from parents, and parents from each other.
The Foreign Slave Trade 308 Ok so at this point, it is ILLEGAL to import slaves into the US.
However, slaves still are smuggled into the US (albeit not a lot) because people still want more
slaves. This led to a weird legal grey area for the US, as there WERE slave rebellions on many
of these illegal slave trading ships. The slaves that revolted were granted their freedom because
they weren’t considered legal slaves due to being imported.
Prosser and Turner Rebellions 309 In 1800, Gabriel Prosser gathered 1,000 rebellious slaves
outside Richmond; but two Africans gave the plot away, and the Virginia militia stopped the
uprising before it began. Prosser and 35 others were executed. In 1822, Denmark Vesey and
his followers made preparations for revolt, but the plan was leaked out again, and suppression
and retribution followed. In 1831, a man named Nat Turner led a band of African Americans who
armed themselves with guns and axes and killed 60 white men, women, and children before
being overpowered by state and federal troops.
Slave Resistance 310 Some slaves stole from their masters or from neighboring whites. Some
performed isolated acts of sabotage; losing or breaking tools (Southern planters gradually
began to buy unusually heavy hoes because so many of the lighter ones got broken) or
performing tasks improperly. Many African Americans resisted by building subtle methods of
rebellion into their normal patterns of behavior.
Pidgin 310 Pidgin is the name of a common language created by slaves that combines many
words from African cultures, and also bits of English as well. This language was created as
many different Slaves from different African nations had to communicate with each other.
Eventually Pidgin and English would combine into almost an accent or a way of speech for
generations.
Importance of Slave Spirituals 310 Music was especially important in slave society. In some
ways, it was as important to African Americans as language. Most important were voices and

[PAGE 98]
song; field workers often used songs to pass time in the fields. Since they sang them in the
presence of whites, they usually attached relatively innocuous words to them.
Slave Religion 312 African American Christianity was a mix of both polytheistic religions from
their own cultures and good ole’ fashioned Christianity. African American christianity held a lot
more positive and hopeful tone of prayer and song, mostly influenced by the hope of freedom,
(honestly the cooler Christianity) and these traditions and customs carry on today.
Slave Marriages 312 Enslaved people in the 19th century saw marriage as a very important
aspect of their lives. Enslaved peoples found themselves having chil dren at pretty young ages
(14,15 even), and premarital children were common. Generally, marriage would happen after a
first child. Enslaved people were occasionally permitted by their masters to marry and see each
other, but most of the time these things were done in complete secrecy and at the dead of night.
Importance of Kinship Networks 312 The marriages that enslaved people were normally part of
never actually
Paternal Nature of Slavery 312 The book tries to be a bit sympathetic with slavery? Basically the
idea is that Slaves aren’t entirely fueled by hate because they are dependent on their owners for
food and shelter (i wonder why book?) By creating dependency on their owners, the idea is that
slaves will be more compliant.
National Cultural Aspirations 315 America wanted to assert itself as a hub of both artistic and
intellectual discussion. They hoped to become better than Europe in its art, and also wanted to
display the US’s unique values through its culture. However America also wanted to adapt the
European ideas of romanticism and Enlightenment.
Hudson River School 316 A “School” of American painters. They painted the vistas of the
rugged and still largely unsettled Hudson Valley. They considered nature the best source of
wisdom and spiritual fulfillment.
Cooper and the American Wilderness 316 James Fenimore Cooper. He wrote more than thirty
novels in the span of three decades, and was known to his contemporaries as a master of
adventure and suspense. What set him apart was his evocation of the American wilderness.
Cooper grew up in central New York, at a time when the edge of white settlement was not far
away.
Herman Melville 317 The new literary concern with the unleashing of human emotions did not
always produce such optimistic works, as the work of Herman Melville suggests.
Southern Romanticism 317 Southern novelists of the 1830s (among them Beverly Tucker,
William Alexander Caruthers, and John Pendleton Kennedy), some of them writers of great
talent, many of them residents of Richmond, produced historical romances or romantic eulogies
of the plantation system of the upper South.

[PAGE 99]
Ralph Waldo Emerson 318 Hey I know this guy! - a renowned essayist, activist, and abolitionist,
Ralph Waldo Emerson would start the Transcendentalist Movement, a movement focused on
the inherent goodness of people and nature. He would write many essays about Humanity and
their relationship to nature, and he would be considered an important intellectual in his era.
Thoreau and Civil Disobedience 318 Thoreau’s rejection of what he considered the artificial
constraints of society extended as well to his relationship with the government. In 1846, he went
to jail rather than agree to pay a toll tax. He insisted that he would not give financial support to a
government that permitted the existence of slavery.
Brook Farm 318 Although transcendentalism was above all an individualistic philosophy, it
helped spawn the most famous of all 19th century experiments in communal living: Brook Farm.
Brook Farm was an experimental community established by George Ripley in West Roxbury,
Massachusetts, in 1841.
There, according to Ripley, individuals would gather to create a new form of social organization.
All residents would share equally in the labor of the community so that all could share in the
leisure. In the end, the experiment was dissolved when tensions between the ideal of individual
freedom and the demands of a communal society rose to their highest, as well as when a fire
destroyed the central building of the community.
New Harmony 319 The failure of Brook Farm did not prevent the formation of other
experimental communities. Some followed in Ripley’s footsteps and borrowed from the ideas of
the French philosopher Charles Fourier, while others drew from the ideas of the Scottish
industrialist and philanthropist Robert Owen. Owen himself founded an experimental community
in Indiana in 1825, which he named New Harmony. It was to be a “Village of Cooperation,” in
which every resident worked and lived in total equality. The community was an economic failure,
but the vision that had inspired it continued to enchant Americans.
Redefined gender roles as the Oneida Community 319 SAM O NELLA??????? A redefinition of
gender roles was crucial to o zeb ne of the most enduring utopian colonies of the 19th century:
the Oneida Community, established in 1848 in New York by John Humphrey Noyes. The Oneida
“Perfectionists,” as residents of the community called themselves, rejected traditional notions of
family and marriage. Basically it was Polygamy but the creator lived in denial. Yeah, pretty much
it. Read more if you're interested.
The Shakers 320 The most distinctive feature of Shakerism was its commitment to complete
celibacy–which meant that no one could be born into the religion. Instead, all Shakers had to
choose it voluntarily. Shaker communities attracted about six thousand members in the 1840s,
more women than men; and members lived in conditions in which the contact between men and
women were very limited. Shakers openly endorsed the idea of sexual equality, and they even
embraced the idea of a God who was not clearly male or female.

[PAGE 100]
Women held the most power in the Shaker society. Shakerism was a refuge from the
“perversions of marriage” and “the gross abuses which drag it down.”
Joseph Smith 320 Leader of the Mormons, he published the Book of Mormon. According to
Smith, it was a translation of a set of golden tablets he had found in the hills of New York,
revealed to him by an angel of God. The Book of Mormon told the story of an ancient and
successful civilization in America, populated by one of the lost tribes of Israel who had found
their way to the new World centuries before Columbus.
Establishment of Salt Lake City 320 Uhh uhhh Joseph Smith haters killed him, and the
Mormons, now under the leadership of Brigham Young, traveled across the desert to present
day Salt Lake City.
New Reform Movements 321 The new organizations did indeed work on behalf of a wide range
of issues: temperance; education; peace; the care of the poor, the handicapped, and the
mentally ill; the treatment of criminals; the rights of women; and many more.
Revivalism in the Burned Over District 322 The “Burned-Over District” was a place that was very
prone to religious awakenings, so it was no surprise that revivalism was so powerful there as
well.
Finney’s Doctrine of Personal Regeneration 322 Finney (The most influential revivalist leader of
the 1820s and 1830s) had the most success in Rochester, New York, where he had particular
success in mobilizing women. Finney discovered that it was effective to target the women in part
because of how appealing the message of revivalism was to them and because they provided
him with access to their male relatives.
American Society for the Promotion of Temperance 323 Although advocates of temperance had
been active since the late 18th century, the new reformers gave the movement an energy and
influence it had never previously known. In 1826, the American Society for the Promotion of
Temperance emerged as a coordinating agency among various groups.It attempted to use
many of the techniques of revivalism in preaching abstinence.
Cultural Divisions over Alcohol 323 The search for social discipline was particularly clear in the
battle over prohibition laws, which pitted established Protestants against new Catholic
immigrants, to many of whom drinking was an important social ritual and an integral part of the
life of their communities.
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––INTERLUDE: STATS–––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
You know when we hit 100 pages we should do a stats thing, like amount of vocab terms per
person and stuff like that.
sure
So far we have like roughly 28068 uses of the letter e until this sentence as of 10/26
There are 101 mentions of Fr * nce as of 11/6

[PAGE 101]
censored.
Me when the textbook has the n-word in it… yeah… so do my texts…
Textbook has been mentioned 54 times total! That’s 54 times we have complained about the
textbook being absolute bullshit
There are 14142 characters in the weird fucking block of text at the start
HEY it isn’t weird, it's a valid discussion on life, happiness, and the human condition.
Thats around ike 40% of the whole document bro no shots
And a decent amount of the text is just ian’s fnaf script
Also some fun(?) facts
They have photos of the actual victims on Jack the Ripper’s wikipedia page post (its really bad
though like warning warning)
There is a devil may cry clone that is also a musical for the PS2. This game is also the official
canon sequel to The Nightmare Before Christmas . It was made by the developers of Devil May
Cry.
Guys did you know that Markiplier was supposed to be the security guard in the FNAF movie??
I have done about 158 Vocab Terms Roughly up to this point (counted while scrolling through
so give or take like 3)
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
Phrenology 324 - Some new scientific idea that the shape of one’s scuff defines their personality
and intelligence. They like, measure parts of the skull and stuff and try to connect it to how
smart someone is?
Discovery of Contagion 325 - Oliver Wendell Holmes figured out that BACTERIA causes
disease no way. Oh and there's more, get this. DISEASE CAN BE SPREAD FROM ONE
PERSON TO ANOTHER! WOW! People thought this guy was crazy though, poor guy. Also the
book mentions that this guy made his students wash their hands after autopsies and people
didn’t get sick anymore. The implications are uh……. WHAT DID THEY LIKE DISSECT SOME
GUY AND THEN HAVE LUNCH OR SOMETHING????????
Rapid Growth of Public Education 325 - People started taking education more seriously, and
there were efforts to create a universal education system. In the 1830s, the belief that people
could achieve more with education led to many people trying to reform education. People like
Horace Mann of Massachusetts tried to reorganize the education system and get teachers to be
paid more. Other States did similar reforms, such as Pennsylvania passing a law that approved
State Funding for schools.

[PAGE 102]
By the 1850s, Tax funded schools were an accepted part of life in many states, and education
was starting to get reformed.
Some schools still sucked though, especially in rural areas like the west.
Achievements of Educational Reform 326 - Despite limitations and inequities, the achievements
of the school reformers were impressive by any standard. By the beginning of the Civil War, the
United States had one of the highest literacy rates of any nation.
The Benevolent Empire 326 - A similar emphasis on the potential of the individual sparked the
creation of new institutions to help the handicapped, institutions that formed part of a great
network of charitable activities known as the Benevolent Empire.
The Asylum Movement 326 - Asylums are created for criminals and for the mentally ill. On one
hand, in advocating prison and hospital reform, Americans were reacting to one of society’s
most glaring ills. Criminals of all kinds, debtors unable to pay their debts, the mentally ill, even
senile poor people–were crowded together into prisons and jails, which, in some cases, were
holes in the ground.
Prison Reform 326 - The creation of asylums for social deviants was not simply an effort to curb
the abuses of the old system. It was also an attempt to reform and rehabilitate the inmates. New
forms of rigid prison discipline were designed to rid criminals of the “laxness” that had
presumably led them astray.
Reform Movements and the Rise of Feminism 327 - Women in the 1830s and 1840s faced not
only all the traditional restrictions imposed on members of their sex by society, but also a new
set of barriers that had emerged from the doctrine of “separate spheres” and the transformation
of the family.
Seneca Falls Convention 330 - An organized meeting In 1848, where many people came to
discuss the very radical and crazy idea of Women’s rights. The meeting resulted in a
“Declaration of Sentiments” similar to the Declaration of Independence that stated that Women
deserve the same rights as men, including the right to vote. They wouldn’t get the right until
1920, but this is considered to be one of the main landmarks in the Push for Women’s rights.
READING QUIZ#9 INFO STARTS HERE
Limited Progress for Women 330 - But in this time period right now, Women’s rights are
improving at the slowest pace imaginable pretty much. Some women get marriage rights or low
places in government. And many women’s education groups are created. The book says that
Feminism was ignored because of Abolitionism, which I guess it’s true but that makes it sound
like only one social reform movement could happen at once.

[PAGE 103]
American Colonization Society 330 - A group of people who were against slavery (yay), but
wanted to get rid of slavery by sending all the slaves to Africa (boo). This of course, ignores the
fact that by this point, almost all slaves have been born in the US at this point, so like, Africa
isn’t really a homeland for them. It got funding from Congress somehow, and Established the
country of Liberia. Not many people got sent there though…
Failure of Colonization 331 - yeah honestly i can’t imagine that this plan would ever work out.
There were too many African Americans in America to be sent to Africa, and as mentioned
above, pretty much all slaves are like generations removed from Africa.
Garrison and The Liberator 331 - A Newspaper formed by William Lloyd Garrison that helped
spread Abolitionist ideals. Garrison’s philosophy was revolutionary for the time, imploring people
to consider the perspective of the Slave, and not the slave owner. Garrison believed that People
should not focus on the evils of slavery on society, but the harm Slavery has done to the African
people. He also argued for the complete destruction of Slavery as a whole, and also hated
Colonization (I still can’t believe people thought it was a valid solution wtf)
American Anti-Slavery Society 331 - An organization of people created in New England in 1832
that was against slavery (no way). This organization spread quickly, with over 250,000 members
and 1350 chapters all over the North. What did this organization do? What was their impact?
Good question, the textbook doesn’t say…
Free Blacks Commitment to Abolition 332 - African Americans in the North were very, very
aware of their lucky situation compared to literal slavery, and fought HARD for the freedom of
their fellow people. Despite the fact that most free African Americans lived in poverty, their
freedom was a sign of hope for progress for those in slavery. (this sentence sucks). Many
African Americans like David Walker argued for the Abolition of slavery, sometimes aggressively
through violence, but mostly through appealing to the common people,
Frederick Douglass 332 - An African American abolitionist who became a leading figure in the
Abolition movement, he purchased his own freedom and served as a public speaker arguing
against slavery. He became famous and widely known, fighting for equality for African
Americans.
Frederick Douglass was also a prominent figure in the Civil War, ultimately not only being the
one to convince Abraham Lincoln to allow free African Americans to join the Union effort but
also the one to convince Abraham Lincoln to support the advancement of Civil Rights (leading
to the all too famous Gettysburg Address).
Violent Reprisals 333 - People really didn’t like the idea of Abolition, and Abolitionists were
frequent targets for violence from people. This violence often involved mobs of angry people,
and led to the deaths of many from mass beating/shootings, often started by stupid shit like
trying to teach African American people to read or publicly associating with Abolitionism at all.
Wow.

[PAGE 104]
Moderates versus Extremists 333 - Abolitionists were divided because while some wanted to
get rid of slavery, others were considered “too radical” for wanting things like leaving the Union,
Destroying the Churches, Gender Equality, the removal of the prison system, and wanting to
remove the government or kicking all slave states out of the government. This led to a schism of
sorts between Abolitionists due to these radical ideas. Some of the more moderate Abolitionists
actually made some good progress, where the Fugitive Slave Act was essentially nullified, and
Slave Catchers were made illegal, or at least not government assisted. Also, like there are a lot
of really wild ideas for the “radical abolitionists”, and then the book just throws gender equality in
there? I guess it was wild for the time…
Harriet Beecher Stowe 335 - The author of the novel Uncle Tom’s Cabin , an antislavery novel
that became the second most popular book in the US (the bible is first). It sold over 300,000
copies within a year, and showed people the horrors of slavery through the sympathetic
Character of Uncle Tom. The book also caused a lot of discussion, and violence due to sectional
tensions.
Abolitionism’s Enduring Influence 335 - Abolitionism would have a massive impact on the
History of the United States, inspiring many other social reform movements, and reminding the
country about the divisive topic of slavery.
(it feels like the book is blaming abolitionism??? Idk it’s not saying it but im getting that vibe)
Oh boy TA Period time to type my fingers off
Manifest Destiny - Manifest Destiny is a form of American Nationalism, where people believed
that it was their divinely ordained right to expand the Country to the west, kicking out everyone
else and clearing the land for AMERICA. It’s proponents claimed that it was an attempt to
spread American freedom, but i think we know what it really was for…
DBQ stuff starts here
Racial Justification 340 People used the idea of the superior “American Race” to justify
expansion and also the murder or forced removal of Indigenous people. Everyone that wasn’t
white white was seen as inferior and bad and savage and you get the idea people are racist.
And because Americans are so much better, they have the right to expand westward with no
consequences whatsoever.
Opposition to Further expansion 341 Henry Clay and other politicians feared that expansion
would cause the whole slavery thing to boil over due to the amount of new States coming into
the Country. Yeah. That’s it. I mean they weren’t wrong…
Stephen Austin 342 - Stephen Austin is often referred to as the father of Texas. With Mexico
inviting americans to come live in Texas there was a huge migration of Southerners with slaves

[PAGE 105]
to this area. One of the southerners moving to TX was Austin. He was a Missouri immigrant and
in 1822 he was invited to live in TX.
With the increase in immigration to TX the American regions were competing in power with the
mexican government. In 1826 was the first revolt which was shut down my the Mexican Gov. but
by 1835 the American population had grown immensely to 30,00 total people.
Sand Jacinto 342 San Jacinto was a battle where General Sam Houston was able to defeat the
Mexican army and take Santa Anna as a prisoner. This would lead to the Independence of
Texas.
Opposition to Annexation 342 People didn’t want to annex Texas, because Texas would be a
slave state, which would disrupt the very very delicate balance of voting power and power in the
Senate and Electoral College. People kept on stalling annexation, leading to a brief part of time
where Texas was independent.
Disputed Claims 343 A dispute over the land of Oregon, Washington, Idaho, Montana, and
Wyoming between the US and Britain. People weren’t able to figure out or solve the dispute,
The US and Britain decided to do a joint occupation thing, where citizens of both countries
coexisted.
Conflict between Settlers and Indians 343 (common textbook racism L)
Uh yeah. You know what this is about. Many Indigenous Peoples are not happy with people
settling on their land and forcing them off the land they have had for hundreds of years. In
addition, SMALLPOX AGAIN! So now another wave of Smallpox is wiping out Native tribes,
leading to Native people fighting back. However this resistance was futile, as people kept on
coming to settle further west.
Oregon Trail 344
The Oregon Trail was the major route westward which was 200miles long from the Great Plains
to past the Rocky Mountains. The trail took around 5 months(may to nov.) and many people
would die on this route. It was especially dangerous due to the snowy rockies.
Life on the Trail 346 Life on the Oregon Trail greatly affected the culture at which American
families separated roles. Men of the families were put to drive the wagons during the day,
whereas women were assigned the task of all the other chores such as cooking and laundry.
Indigenous peoples along the trail played a huge part in the success of many of the journeys to
the West, with many White families opting to trade with them in order to maintain momentum on
the trail. In addition, there is also a running idea that the many families that partook in this
journey were completely on their own, whereas in reality, many families actually traveled in
larger groups with other friends that decided they too, wanted to join on the journey.

[PAGE 106]
James K Polk 347 In the 1844 Election, 2 big candidates were seemingly leading the 2
American parties, former president Van Buren headed the Democratic party, while Henry Clay
led the Whig party. However, many Democrats were on the side of expanding Westward, and
Van Buren’s less aggressive ideas on Westward expansion and his lack of support for the idea
led many Democrats to actually support a certain James K Polk, who was in large support of
Westward expansion.
Compromise over Oregon 347 Polk wanted a renegotiation of that Land Dispute between the
US and Britain mentioned above, and basically threatened war unless Britain accepted a
territory divided at the 49th Parallel. Britain didn’t want a war so they just accepted the “offer”
This is often referred to as the Oregon Treaty of 1846.
American Interests in California 347 Americans found California a very tempting territory to
have, due to the access to another piece of coastal land on the other side of the continent. In
addition, the idea of trade with Mexico and the local people in California drove many to settle in
California.
Failure of the Slidell Mission 348 John Slidell was a minister assigned by Polk to politely and
peacefully buy the Texas territory. Uh yeah that went well. The Mexican government didn’t meet
with the guy.
Opposition to the War 349 America had provoked Mexico into starting a war over Texas, and
many people were against the Mexican American war. Many people claimed that Polk had
deliberately provoked Mexico into fighting, and other people argued that the Northwest was a
bigger problem, as there might be a war with Britain (see compromise over Oregon). Others
saw the casualties and horrors of the war and opposed the war on moral grounds. People saw
this as a precedent for the President being able to declare war on anyone for any reason.
Bear Flag Revolution 349 In California, Stephen W Kearny third partied Mexico and some
American Settlers that were led by John C Fremont. Kearny helped organize the scattered
Americans into a pretty decent military and drove Mexico out of California. Keep in mind Mexico
is still fighting over Texas, so this is a pretty crippling defeat.
Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo 350 This treaty pretty much officiated the American Victory over
Mexico, with Mexico losing a TON of land (pretty much everything west of Texas) to America.
America in turn paid a paltry sum of $15 million dollars (nothing compared to the value of the
land). This treaty also sparked some internal conflict over the status of the new territories as
slave or non slave states.
Wilmot Proviso 351 During the Mexican American War, David Wilmot proposed the Abolition of
Slavery in all new Territories acquired from Mexico. This didn’t pass, but it was heavily debated
in the House and Senate.

[PAGE 107]
Competing Plans 351 Many people had plans to try and fix the slavery debate, such as
extending the Missouri Compromise, or the idea of Popular Sovereignty (letting the people
decide). The debate on these proposals dragged on, so no real progress was really made
during Polk’s presidency.
Free Soil Party 351 A Political Party that was created and supported Anti Slavery. That’s it. The
book compares them to the Know Nothings???? The Racist group????? What?????
FORTY NINERS 351 In California, a major surge of immigration occurred due to the discovery
of Gold in California. The California Gold Rush led to over 220,000 people moving to California
in search of GOLD! The gold rus immigrants were known as Forty-Niners and they abandoned
everything to try and strike it rich. The Gold Rush also attracted a large number of Chinese
Immigrants, These Chinese immigrants often ended up filling up the jobs left behind by people
trying to find gold.
Indian Slavery 352 During the Gold Rush, many people took it upon themselves to either
murder or enslave all the Native Americans in California. Good on them! (This is sarcasm)
Sectional Conflict over Slavery in the Territories 353 With California and New Mexico entering
the Union as free states (by the influence of President Zachary Taylor), one thing that should be
noted however, is that these 2 states became free states out of their own volition and made the
decision to outlaw slavery on their own(again, with influence from President Zach Taylor). This
of course, heavily angered the White southerners in support of slavery. This imbalance in free
and slave states resulted in a lot of sentiment supporting succession from the union in Southern
states.
Clay’s Proposed Solution 353 An aging Henry Clay proposed to have multiple policies made to
subdue the anger from (mainly the white slave-owning southerners) the American people which
would hopefully allow both sides to reach a compromise. He proposed to have California
admitted as a free state, while the rest of the land gained from the Mexican American war to be
split into territories(important to note, NOT STATES! Remember, only states have the ability to
allow or disallow slavery, territories are in complete control of the government) that would have
no restrictions on slavery. Clay then proposed to have the slave trade abolished (but not
slavery) in DC.
These proposals incited mass conflict in congress, and some important stuff to note here is just
that some old dying John C Calhoun was very in favor of ideas that supported Southern
independence on laws regarding slavery, such as telling the North to stop “attacking slavery”.
In the end, the Clay proposal proved unsuccessful and congress moved on.
NEw Leadership 353 What we see happening in this era of the US is a change in the generation
of politicians running the country. For example: William Seward, a 49 year old who was really
into eliminating slavery (LFG), Jefferson Davis, 42, who was on the opposite spectrum of

[PAGE 108]
Seward (Southern cotton plantation owner), and Stephen Douglas, a 37 year old who was really
into the construction of infrastructure connecting the US coast to coast.
Temporary Compromise 354 These newer politicians(see NEw Leadership) were able to reach
a compromise, in which Stephen Douglas brought up the idea of breaking up Clay’s Proposal
into different bills, and allowing everybody to vote on them instead. This was to be called the
The Compromise of 1850 (super creative holy shit man), and was signed by current president
Millard Fillmore. (Zach Taylor died of a tummy bug)
Opposition to the Fugitive Slave Act 355 In 1850 and the years leading up to it, a common
problem in the North was the many Southerners rushing up into Northern homes to try to claim
formerly enslaved people to kidnap them back onto Southern plantations. This angered
Northerners a ton, and as a result the Fugitive Slave Act was put in the crosshairs for allowing
these unjust attacks to happen. This opposition also angered Southerners, after all, why should
Northerners disallow Southerners from barging onto properties and searching for people that
were free just to drag them back into bondage?
Ostend Manifesto 355 In 1854, the US attempted to buy Cuba from Spain which was very
unsuccessful on the US part, with the US constantly being pushed back from Spain’s diplomats.
A group of people associated with the US sent the leader of the efforts to take Cuba, Franklin
Pierce, a letter that basically gave the case that the US should just take Cuba by force. This was
leaked to the public, and angered Northerners as it meant that another most likely slave-legal
state was to enter the country.
One thing I wanna get out of the way real quick:
The textbook mentions that “The Kingdom of Hawaii agreed to join the US in 1854” IS
COMPLETELY FUCKING FALSE. The US annexed Hawaii, I myself am not sure what the
Hawaiian people thought of this (although we can kind of assume they were not huge fans). The
US then 40ish years later fucking incited a coup, overthrowing the Hawaiian government and
queen.
Transcontinental Railroad and Slavery 355 Infrastructure and communication became a big
problem as the US grew westward, and there was a growing urge for the US to do something to
connect the country coast to coast. Again, more discourse between the North and South.
Northerners liked the idea of bringing the rail network to Chicago, whereas Southerners liked
the idea of St Louis or New Orleans.
Gadsden Purchase 355 James Gadsden, sent by Jefferson Davis was sent to Mexican territory
to persuade Mexico to sell a strip of land that is now Arizona and New Mexico for only
10,000,000 that would allow for better usage of the Transcontinental Railroad that was being
built.
Might I add, the Transcontinental Railroad was basically 100% built by the efforts of Chinese
immigrants who came over to the US during the gold rush and Irish immigrants during the Great

[PAGE 109]
Potato Famine, yet those who get credit for the railroad’s construction to this day are still
basically just the White Americans who just oversaw the labor.
Kansas Nebraska Act 356 In an effort to make the Missouri Compromise line acceptable to
southerners, Douglas implemented “popular sovereignty.” In theory, the region could choose to
open itself to slavery. When the southern Democrats demanded more, Douglas allowed for them
to repeal the Missouri compromise. Douglas also split the area into Nebraska and Kansas, the
latter being more likely to become a slave state.
Birth of the Republican Party 356 eqeqeqeq (league of legends??) People in both major parties
who opposed Douglas’s bill began to call themselves Anti-Nebraska Democrats and
Anti-Nebraska Whigs. In 1854, they formed a new organization and named it the Republican
Party.
Pottawatomie Massacre 356 apparently google has a different spelling
Ok so Kansas right now is an absolute fuckfest because the government said “lets have the
people vote on the very delicate topic of slavery that we can’t decide in congress because it’s
gonna start a war”. Because people’s votes mattered so much right now, Kansas became a
battlefield where people fought and KILLED each other for their voting preferences (slavery or
non slavery). In addition, everyone was committing voter fraud because people are really
passionate about slavery. This is basically what Bloody Kansas is and if it isn’t on the quiz
i would be really disappointed.
Pottawatomie Massacre is John Brown killing a bunch of slave owners. But it is a PART of
Bloody Kansas, NOT Bloody Kansas itself.
John Brown is an extreme Abolitionist, who believes that it was God's will that he take it upon
himself to destroy slavery. He got a group of people (including his sons), and murdered a bunch
of slave owners who wanted to settle in Kansas. He like really fucked up the bodies as a
message to other slave owners who wanted to move in and settle. This led to even more
conflict in Kansas (fighting fighting), and a lot of discourse (who’s to blame for the violence?)
Preston Brooks and Charles Sumner 357 The pointedly sexual references made by Charles
Sumner and the viciousness of the speech enraged Andrew Butler’s nephew, Preston Brooks.
This shit escalated FAST. Several days after the speech, Brooks jumps Sumner with a heavy
cane. Sumner was at his desk, and he rose with such strength that he tore the desk from the
bolts holding it to the floor. Yeah pretty much Sumner got jumped, couldn’t do anything for the
next four years, and Brooks resigned and stood successfully for reelection.
Free Soil Ideology 357 Most white northerners came to believe that the existence of slavery was
dangerous not because of what it did to blacks but because of what it threatened to do to the
whites.

[PAGE 110]
Slave Power Conspiracy 357 According to this northern vision, the South was the antithesis of
democracy–a closed, static society, in which slavery preserved an entrenched aristocracy and in
which common whites had no
Pro Slavery Arguments OH YOU KNOW THIS IS GOING TO BE BAD - A bunch of people who
supported slavery brought together their views into documents called the Pro Slavery
Arguments. These arguments basically argued that slavery was good for everyone. They
describe how slavery is not evil but instead is positive good, and the enslaved people were
supposedly happy and it is good for the economy. It also argued that the African American
enslaved people were not able to take care of themselves and biologically inferior.
Kinda like a way to spread these false beliefs which could be the reason why spread of
information of abolitionist beliefs the real truth of slavery became such a big way to rebel against
slavery.
Election of 1856 358 -
Democratic Party – in this election had James Buchanan as their candidate because he was a
reliable politician but more importantly was an English Minister meaning he was not associated
with the events of “Bleeding Kansas”.
Republicans – had John C. Fremont who did not have any previous politcal record.
Native American/Know-Nothing Party – had Millard Fillmore who had an endorsment from the
remains of the Whigs
At the end Buchanan won but only slightly ahead from the other two. Although Buchanan won,
when he was president the economy was in distress and this strengthened the republican party
because many people believed that the financial problems were due to a democratic president.
Taney’s Sweeping Opinion 359 A case known as Scott vs Sanford involved a former enslaved
person named Dred Scott who had recently gotten his freedom when his slave owner, a former
US army surgeon, had died. John Sanford, brother to the newly widowed wife of the surgeon,
argued that he had ownership over Scott, and the case was taken to the Supreme Court. Chief
Justice Roger Taney argued that African Americans had no real citizenship and therefore no
Constitutional rights, and were therefore property. Thus, by allowing Scott to be free, that was a
violation of property. This argument became super popular in the court, and unfortunately Scott
was not granted his freedom.
Why does this case matter? This case reinforced to people at the time the idea that enslaved
people were property, and reinforced ideas that enslaved people also deserved no
Constitutional rights. 😬
Lecompton Constitution Rejected 359 In 1857, the Lecompton Convention took place in which
Kansas was admitted into the Union as a slave state, but when the Lecompton constitution was
given to voters, antislavery groups showed up and voted for anti slavery, winning the vote by
10,000. Still, this does not mean that the Lecompton Constitution was completely invalid, it only
told the government that the majority in Kansas did not like it. President Buchanan, a

[PAGE 111]
pro-slavery president pressured Congress to admit Kansas with the Lecompton Constitution as
it’s founding document. This proved unsuccessful, and Kansas would be admitted to the Union
as a free state later in 1861 after many southern states had seceded the Union.
Lincoln Douglass Debates 359 Abraham Lincoln, a relatively unknown Republican and Stephen
A Douglas, a prominent Northern Democrat would often have debates by the request of Lincoln
(as the large audience of Douglas would in turn give Lincoln publicity). This worked super in
favor of Lincoln, as Douglas would never waste a moment to ego some random backwoods
Republican, and Lincoln knew that no matter what he would gain a good following and therefore
expand his reach across the country.
Lincoln’s Position 359 Lincoln believed that slavery was morally incorrect and wrong, but never
spoke out against the lack of rights and mistreatment of African Americans in the US. In fact, he
had some pretty shitty ideas, such as the idea that African Americans and White Americans
should not live side by side in society. This would later change, as influence from Frederick
Douglass will lead to Lincoln becoming a lot more of a person who believes in the basic human
rights of all Americans.
John Brown’s Raid 360 Remember John Brown? The Guy from the massacre a few things
above? Well, he got really pissed about the whole Kansas thing and about slavery as a whole.
He got funding from some Abolitionists to start a slave rebellion in the south. He attacked and
captured a US arsenal in Virginia, but he failed to inspire the slaves to start a rebellion. Robert E
Lee pulls up and arrests Brown, and he gets executed. The South sees this event as a major
reason not to trust the North, as they thought Brown got funding from the Republicans
Divided Democrats 361
Disunion 361 After Lincoln wins the Election, South Caroline decides to nope out of the whole
United States thing going on right now. This created a domino effect of many southern States
leaving the union, and this kinda started the civil war.
Southern Nationalism 365 As soon as Lincoln got elected, many military leaders in the South
believed in their own southern nationalism, where they saw themselves as completely different
from their northern counterparts.
Establishment of the Confederacy 365 As South Carolina, mississippi, Florida, Alabama,
Georgia, Louisiana, and Texas leave the US, they form the Confederate States of America. At
the time, the North is kinda too shocked to really take action, and congress is fighting over
whether the states have the right to leave at all.
Crittenden Compromise 366 An attempt at getting Southern states to rejoin the Union, John J
Crittenden proposed the permanent existence of slavery and the permanent application of the
Missouri Compromise in return for the South rejoining the union. The Southern States seemed

[PAGE 112]
to accept the compromise, but Northern Republicans refused to agree to this compromise, as
this would go against their main principle of preventing the spread of slavery .
The War Begins 366 There was a Fort in South Carolina owned by the Federal Government
called Fort Sumter, and this fort is being surrounded by (recently created) Confederate soldiers.
Lincoln doesn’t want to surrender the fort, and sends a relief convoy to the fort. The
Confederates don’t want to look lame to the Federal Government, so they capture the Fort,
starting the Civil War.
Union Advantages 368 The Union has a LOT more people (almost double), and way better
infrastructure and industry compared to the South, which only really cared about cotton and
slavery.
Southern Advantages 368 Most battles were fought on Southern Territory that soldiers were
familiar with, and also the Confederates were a lot more committed to the War than the North,
where people were divided over whether to fight the war or not.
Republican Economic Policy 368 Since most of the South is now their own Confederacy now,
Congress is pretty much just Republicans now. Republicans decide that now is the time to grow
the economy, encouraging people to buy land and further education. They also invested into
greater infrastructure like more Railroads and new banks
National Bank Acts 369 The National Bank Acts created a new interconnected Banking system
where Preexisting banks can join by investing a third of their total capital in the Government. In
return, these banks can issue US Treasury currency. This helped create a uniform system of
bank notes usable all over the North.
Financing the War 369 War is expensive, and the North tried many ways to fund it. They tried
taxes, issuing lots of paper currency (more money is clearly the solution), and also borrowing
money. Everything had a lot of drawbacks, people were against taxes, and the paper currency
caused a decent amount of inflation because the new money was not backed by gold. The main
way the North made money was through selling Bonds
Draft Riots 370 (Huh) The Union needed people to fight in the war, so they started a draft
where all young men had to fight unless they could find a replacement or pay up. This caused
Riots, as many of the common people saw this war as a war for the rich paid for and fought for
by the poor. Many people died in riots because of these Drafts.
Wartime Repression 371 Lincoln took a lot of power during the war, and basically said “fuck it
we ball”. The war had a lot of opposition, but Lincoln did not give a damn about that. He ordered
the military to suppress dissenters and protesters against the war. He also used propaganda in
order to get people more excited and have a more positive opinion on the war. When lincoln
was up for reelection, a series of lucky victories in the South boosted Lincoln into reelection.

[PAGE 113]
Confiscation Acts 372 A group of laws that freed all confederate slaves fighting for the
Confederates. This was meant to demoralize and cripple Confederate armies and the South in
General.
Emancipation Proclamation 373 Lincoln’s official statement freeing all Slaves in Confederate
territories that haven’t been captured by the Union yet. Nice thought, but this doesn’t really do
much since it doesn’t apply to border states or UNCAPTURED confederate states so this
doesn’t apply that much.
Black Enlistment 376 The Union used a lot of Freed Slaves and African Americans in the Civil
War, as they boosted the Numbers of the Union armies greatly. Once the Emancipation
Proclamation came out, African American Enlistment skyrocketed.
Mistreatment of BLack Soldiers 376 However, these soldiers were pretty much used for hard
labor like digging trenches and transporting goods. African American Soldiers died a lot more
than White soldiers due to disease and hard working hours. They were also paid like 66% of
what a White Soldier was paid.
Hard Time For Workers 377 Due to the lack of resources from the South, and due to substantial
inflation that wages didn’t account for, the average worker had way less buying power. In
addition, new machines cut even more jobs that people needed.
US Sanitary Commission 377 Despite the official sounding name, it’s a volunteer organization
that had many female nurses help serve in Union field Hospitals. By 1900, Nursing had become
an all female occupation pretty much.
Traditional Gender Roles Reinforced 377 Female Nurses were kind of ignored by Male Doctors,
and the Sanitary Commission tried to use the Cult of Domesticity as reasoning for Female
Nurses to help in these Hospitals. They argued that since women were already so good at
housekeeping, cooking, and nursing, they should be able to help in the war.
Yeah this part sucks.
Nursing And Medicine 378 Nursing and medicine helped reduce deaths to disease during the
Civil war. However, Disease was still the leading cause of death in the Civil war, with even small
injuries becoming potentially fatal due to disease.
Davis’s Leadership 378 The Confederate Government is kind of a shitshow, because their
president Jefferson Davis is kind of a NERD. He doesn’t really do much and doesn’t really step
up or do anything notable during this very notable time period.
SOuthern Divisions 378 Many people in the South still refused to follow the Confederate
Government, and many people criticized the government for things going bad, even more so as
the Confederacy starts to lose hard.

[PAGE 114]
Funding Problems 379 If the Union has some bad financial problems, the confederacy has
some BAD financial problems.Most of the States didn’t tax their citizens, and also the economy
is in shambles because of the whole “Strong States, weak Central Government” Thing. So you
got like 8 different states producing different currencies. In addition, these states are printing a
TON of money and nobody knows whats worth how much and stuff.
To put this in perspective, the price of stuff in the North rose like 80% yikes!
Prices in the South rose 9000 % uh oh…
Raising the Confederate Army 379 The Confederacy also had the “get people to fight in the war”
problem, and they also instituted a Draft. They had the same “common vs elite” problem, as
people who owned 20 or more slaves got out of the draft.
Manpower Shortage 379 The South has a people shortage, and the government tries everything
from broadening the draft to conscripting slaves (that would have been a massive L but the war
ended before this could happen).
Centralization 380 By the End of the war, the Confederate Government was strong enough to
not implode. They tried using a “food draft” to feed their soldiers, which basically let soldiers
take food from farms they pass by. This is going to end well. (no it won’t).
People are still believing in the “states rights over feds” thing though so the central government
really has like no power.
Economic Woes 380 The Southern Economy is in shambles. Nobody is able to farm cotton
since everyone is fighting, and the lack of railroads is really putting the Southern Economy in the
EconomyShredder 3000™ . In addition, the North is putting its efforts into destroying the already
really really bad Southern Infrastructure. As the war continues, the South finds itself in an
everything shortage, food, economic power, medicine, skilled workers, everything.
There started to be riots over food and taxation, and black markets popped up to try and keep
people alive and not starving.
New Roles for WOmen 380 because all the Men in the South are busy dying and fighting the
war, Women had a lot more power since someone has to keep the plantation alive. The Wives
of slave owners often became responsible for managing slaves, and often had to work on the
fields themselves. This led to many questioning the strict Patriarchy of the South, as women
found out they were in fact Capable of handing the jobs that men did.
Lincoln’s Leadership 381 Although Lincoln does not have much military experience (only in the
Black Hawk War) he was forced to take a larger role in strategy since his generals didn’t; This
forced him to continuously replace his generals until he landed on Ulysses S. Grant (later 18th
pres.). Lincoln took advantage of the fact that the Union had more resources and numbers than

[PAGE 115]
the south. Lincoln also targeted the destruction of the Confederate Army rather than the
southern territories.
Robert E Lee 382 Lee was the general appointed for the Conferate army by the Confederate
President Davis. Lee leaves soon after to go command forces in the field leaving Davis to
stratagize alone.
The Union Blockade 383 The Union Blockade was a strategy to attempt to block the
Confederacy’s Access to trade. Although it was never 100% effective it still made a large impact
on the South. By 1865 the Union had successfully captured all important ports
Ironclads 383 - Like battleships, but not really! THe Confederacy tried to break through the
Union blockades with iron-clad ships. However, the Union already had a lot of Ironclads and met
the Confederates with a stalemate, forcing the Confederacy to back off. The Confederacy would
never meet the Union’s sheer naval power.
King Cotton Diplomacy 383 The South tried to gain the favor of European Allies through cotton,
but at this point the South has exported so much damn cotton that Europe had an extreme
surplus of cotton and could afford to just… not buy cotton. In addition, Europe has other cooler
places to get cotton from like Egypt, or India. Also Europeans didn’t want to deal with the
Union’s naval blockade so there was that as well.
Trent affair 383 So some Confederates break through the blockade and make it to Cuba, and
board an English boat headed to England. Charles WIlkes, a Union captain, jumps the boat and
arrests the Confederate Diplomats, which pisses off England since they were on an English
ship. The Union stalls for a bit and then releases a non apology pretty much.
Guerilla War in the West 384 In more western States like Kansas, it was pretty much an all out
war, with groups of Slavery supporters jumping everyone , and also Slavery haters jumping
everyone a little less. THe Border States of Kansas and Missouri had a lot of deaths during the
Civil war.
High Casualties 385 A LOT of people died in the Civil war, almost more than 4x any other war
that the US has fought. About 618,000 in fact. yikes…
Repeating Weapons 385 Repeating weapons like Revolvers or rifles caused a lot more deaths,
as people didn’t have to reload after shooting 1 bullet anymore. In addition, Cannons and
Artillery got a lot better at exploding and causing a lot of damage.
The new meta for war was staying low to the ground and taking cover. Trench Warfare was
starting to kinda become a thing.

[PAGE 116]
Importance of the Railroad 387 Railroads were vital to fighting the War, as they were able to
quickly transport large numbers of soldiers and resources to places. Since Railroad Stations
were unable to move for some reason (wonder why), They also became important locations for
armies to hold and control.
The Telegraph (again) 387 The telegraph was used, but not really since nobody really knew how
to use the telegraph still. It was still used, and spies learned to tap into telegraph lines, but the
textbook ends there so like oh well.
First Battle of Bull Run 387 On July 21 1861 (i put the year here), The first Battle of Bull Run
was almost a Union victory, but the Confederates were able to regroup into a counterattack. The
North was exhausted due to the what at this point, and started to panic and retreat. McDowell
(union general) tried to reorganize and regroup, but everyone is dipping at this point. In addition,
there are a bunch of civilians here who wanted to watch the battle from a distance like a damn
basketball game. That must have been traumatizing for little timmy.
This battle severely lowered Union Morale and was a sign to Lincoln of the long and arduous
war he was about to lead.
Wilson’s Creek 388 Union General Nataniel Lyon tried to take part of Missouri but was defeated
and killed in battle. However, he had crippled the Confederate Army, and the Union was able to
take a decent amount of Missouri due to his sacrifice.
New Orleans Captured 388 IN April of 1862, THe Union was able to take New Orleans because
the Union came from the south and not the North like the Confederacy expected. This was a
turning point, as New Orleans was one of the only Major trading areas the Confederacy had, so
the economy was in shambles x2. It also gave the North control over the entrance to the
Mississippi River so uh oh south.
Shiloh 388 (Like the dynasty??) Ulysses S. Grant was taken by surprise in Shiloh Tennessee
when Albert Sidney Johnston and P. G. T. Beauregard attacked him and his army, inciting the
Battle of Shiloh which lasted from April 6-7, resulting in a Union retreat until an extra 25,000
troops were sent to Grant, and he and his army managed to take back Shiloh. This victory
snowballed into Union control of Corinth Mississippi, a railroad hub in the South, allowing them
better control of the area.
George McCllellan 388 George McClellan was the commander/general of the Army of Potomac,
and was well known for his proficiency in training and preparing troops. However, it’s really hard
to put these talents to use if you never fight in the first place. Which you can assume by my
wording here that he never did. This assumption would be correct, as McClellan was notorious
for not taking advantage of opportunities and this results in a lot of slow progress.
McClellan was mostly well known for his failure versus Thomas Jackson, as he decided to
attack Richmond, thinking that as long as Richmond was under attack, he would not have to

[PAGE 117]
worry about the safety of Washington. This was a mistake, as Jackson started to move towards
Washington as soon as this attack happened, but it was a decoy meant to draw out troops away
from Washington, and Jackson then fought 2 armies at the same time, defeating them both,
thus earning him that “Stonewall” nickname.
Seven Pines 391 As you remember, McClellan was attacking Richmond. To meet him at
Richmond was Joseph E. Johnston, who met his army at Seven Pines. Johnston was then
replaced by Robert E Lee (Johnston got injured). Lee’s plan was to cut off McClellan from the
sea, but McClellan managed to fight his way to the coast, allowing himself navy support.
McClellan now had clear sights to attack Richmond, just 25 miles away. However, as classic
McClellan goes, he found even more reason to delay the operation over and over again,
resulting in Lincoln recalling McClellan and having General John Pope meet him on the way
there to continue the offensive from there.
Antietam 391 Robert E Lee began to move up through Maryland, hoping to catch McClellan’s
retreating force by surprise. McClellan was lucky enough to get a copy of these plans and
immediately set out to meet Lee with preparation. The plans also revealed that Jackson was
splitting away from Lee and leading an army to take Harper Ferry. McClellan, being the fucking
coward he is decided that instead of taking Jackson, who expected little to no resistance by
surprise, he would instead delay the offensive and give Lee ample time to get ready a force at
Antietam Creek. The battle that ensued was one of the bloodiest in the war, with 5,000 dying
and 17,000 injured. McClellan, who had man advantage decided to instead of chasing down
Lee’s army instead opted to let Lee and his men retreat. Although the battle was won, it could
have proven to be such a larger victory than it was in reality.
Battle of Chancellorsville 392 bruh who makes these dumb ass names Joseph Hooker, now the
commander of the Army of Potomac(Union) headed for Fredericksburg and Lee’s army. What
ensued was the Battle of Chancellorsville, in which Thomas Jackson and Robert E Lee
surrounded the Union army from the front and right, defeating the Union despite being
outnumbered. Hooker luckily escaped with his army intact, and damage was still caused to the
Confederates, with General Jackson dying and Robert E Lee unable to catch the fleeing
Hooker.
Vicksburg 392 All of this doom and gloom was happening in the East, where incompetent Union
generals constantly got fucked by Robert E Lee and General Jackson (a lot of the reason why
Robert E Lee is considered a “miliatry genius” is really just because of the lack of competence
of these generals, not the individual skill of Lee). In the West, Ulysses S Grant was going
literally fucking dicko mode on the Confederates.
In 1863, Ulysses S Grant strolled into Vicksburg Mississippi, and flanked the military stronghold
there, setting in for siege. When the civilians in the city were fully starved of rations, the city
finally surrendered to Grant’s barrage of fire.

[PAGE 118]
This victory is SUPER important for the Union, because it allows for the Confederate South to
be split into 2 (meaning that to get stuff from West to East you need to pass through land that is
controlled by the Union).
Gettysburg 393 One of the most famous names in the entirety of the Civil War, Robert E Lee
argued that the Confederate troops be sent into Northern soil, specifically in Pennsylvania. Lee
followed with this plan, leading his troops into Gettysburg, where the Army of Potomac, this time
led by George C. Meade, awaited him. This battle was one of the bloodiest to happen in
American history, with the infamous Pickett’s Charge, a charge of 15,000 Confederate troops
resulting in the casualties of 10,000 Confederate troops. By the first couple days, Lee had lost a
third of his army and on July 4th, Lee withdrew from Gettysburg. This was a crucial victory for
the Union since not only did it reduce the Confederate army by a massive amount, but the short,
270ish word speech that would be given by the President of the United States would mark a
turning point in the idea of Civil Rights in the nation of America. (Gettysburg Address)
Battle of Chattanooga 394 bruhhhhhhhhh After taking Chattanooga, the Union forces led by
William Rosecrans began a pursuit of Confederate general Bragg and his forces. Knowing this,
Bragg set up right on the border of Georgia, this time with reinforcements. The battle that would
ensue would be called the Battle of Chickamauga and a defeat for the Union would ensue. The
union backed up to Chattanooga, where Big Dawg Ulysses S Grant would come to the rescue
and drive the Confederates back into Georgia, resulting in another massive victory for the
Union. With this victory, the Confederacy had lost hope, money, and too much man power to
keep going.
Grant’s Strategy 394 Despite Ulysses S Grant winning many battles for the Union and being the
ultimate cause of military success for the Union, Grant’s strategies can not be considered as the
most…decisive. I love this guy a lot, but his strategies often involved brute forcing his way
through Confederate lines with a huge numbers advantage, and as a result a lot of American
blood was shed on the side of the Union just as the casualties on the Confederate side. Still, he
had his moments of genius, and showed unorthodox methods especially in the northern
campaign in which Grant’s armies would often retreat by basically running into the wilderness to
prevent Lee’s army from pursuing or they could be easily jumped. This section goes on for ages,
you can read it yourself to be honest.
Capture of Atlanta 396 General Sherman(Union) confronted General Johnston led forces at
Kennesaw Mountain, just North of Atlanta, where Johnston won against an army 30,000
stronger than his, but did not deter General Sherman, who took Atlanta on September second.
This victory is also a super important one because once news of it got home, the war, which
was pretty unpopular at this point in the North due to the losses in lives, rejuvenated the
motivation to keep fighting and for the Republican cabinet to be united and support President
Lincoln.
March to the Sea 396 Sherman kept on going once he hit Atlanta though, starting his famous
March to the Sea. Sherman had his troops live off the land and destroy supplies so that any

[PAGE 119]
armies attempting to capture Sherman would be deterred, and as a result managed to destroy a
large portion of Confederate infrastructure, punching a huge hole in the Confederate economy
and therefore war effort. This also destroyed Southern morale to keep supporting the
Confederate army.
Appomattox Court House 397 General Grant’s Army of Potomac finally managed to capture a
railroad junction town near Petersburg, and without control of the rail network, Robert E Lee was
forced to surrender Richmond, attempting to move west so that maybe he could escape the
Union army by going around them. Grant managed to catch Lee’s army and with that, Lee
surrendered his army and in a decently nice house in Appomattox Court House(yes, this is the
name of a town, not a court house lmao). Later, General Johnston would do the same,
surrendering his troops to General Sherman.
The Impact of the North’s Victory 397 Of course, the North’s victory meant the destruction of the
Confederate Army and would lead to the Confederacy joining the Union of the United States,
but it also greatly strengthened the Northern economy, allowing for Industry and Railroad
development to boom, while the South’s planting economy was destroyed as the young male
population and the land was utterly gone. This brought the US in the direction of industry, as
now the economic growth of plantations would no longer be able to match that of the Industrial
economy in the North. However, far and away the most important victory (and perhaps the most
important victory in the entire US history, I would argue) was the freeing of the millions of
Africans Americans from bondage, and with Abraham Lincoln’s Emancipation Proclamation
bringing officially supported Civil Rights to the US(as in, public support from the President in
favor of the basic human rights of African Americans in the US), the US now headed into a new
age.
READING QUIZ#9 INFO ENDS HERE
The Devastated South 400 The South was in utter ruins. Plantations were destroyed,
infrastructure trashed and now White planters now had to work the fields without free labor.
Confederate money had lost all of its value, and the male population that was once readily
available for hard labor was now completely decimated.
Myth of the Lost Cause 400 “The Lost Cause” refers to the fact that all the 258,000 Confederate
soldiers who died in the war were part of a war they could never win(true, Grant solos).
Southerners vehemently almost…worshiped(?) Confederate figures such as Robert E. Lee,
Jackson, and Jefferson Davis, and monuments, statues, and things were made in honor of
these figures. The part that really sucks about this is that these structures are still up today, and
people still defend not tearing them down as it is “history” (mind you, history that is not history of
the US, but the Confederacy, which is NOT the US).
:3

[PAGE 120]
Tic tac toe? O
X O
O O X
X X
ggez
cheater. mods ban this man. and give him the flu or something too as well.
:>
Freedom for the Ex-Slaves 401 For African Americans, the idea of freedom came in many
different forms. Pretty much everyone believed that they deserved the same rights as other
citizens, but the way they got those rights was a debated topic. Some wanted land as restitution,
while others simply wanted legal equality. Others wanted more opportunities for work. As soon
as emancipation occurred, many former slaves created their own communities and worked
together to rebuild.
The Freedmen’s Bureau 402 A government institution that kept troops in the south to ensure the
abolition of slavery, and also to help support the Millions of former slaves with things like getting
jobs and education. The Freedman’s Bureau was only a thing for a year, and it was too small
and underfunded to really fix any problems.
Conservative and Radical Republicans 403 In the Republican Party, there are divisions on the
way the Country is gonna do the whole Reconstruction thing. Conservatives just wanted the
SOuth to abolish slavery, while the Radicals such as Charles Sumner wanted that the South be
actively punished for their rebellion. They suggested that the South’s voting power should be
limited and that the government should put efforts in to enforce racial equality. Why is this so
radical? Idk man.
Lincoln’s 10% plan 403 Lincoln was more conservative, as his goal was to get the Country back
together again ASAP. Lincoln suggested that as long as Slavery is abolished and 10% of voters
promise to be good citizens again, the South can rejoin.
In My Personal Opinion™ this is the worst fucking plan ever like… making 10% of people just
PROMISE to be good is going to do nothing.
Wade Davis Bill 403 Radical Republicans saw Lincoln’s plan and thought it was lame as hell, so
they created the Wade Davis Bill, which authorized the president to appoint governors for
conquered states. When each conquered state had a majority of the people pledge their
allegiance, they could put a convention together to elect people who didn’t participate on the
confederate side.
The Bill also wanted these new state governments to abolish slavery, remove voting rights for
high ranking Confederates and stuff like that.

[PAGE 121]
Bill was vetoed xd lmao.
Also Lincoln’s dead now. He died on April 14, 1865 from a shot to the back of the head.
Andrew Johnson’s Personality 404 Andrew Johnson was a Democrat and was a pretty angry
guy overall. He had a lot of insecurities and grudges. He was also a racist so that was a
problem for the whole reconstruction thing. Johnson was sympathetic with the south and helped
get them their land and rights back… wow.
Northern Attitudes Harden 404 Radical Republicans were not happy with Andrew Johnson and
Northerners became a lot more hostile towards the South. Many Northerners were angry with
the slow abolition of Slavery and the refusal by the South to grant freed slaves their rights. Many
Northerners were also pissed that Georgia literally elected Confederate VICE PRESIDENT
Alexander Stephens as a senator.
Johnson’s veto 405 Congress was mad at the establishment of Black Codes and passed bills
that would make the Freedmen's Bureau more powerful. Johnson vetoed them but Congress
was able to override the vetoes.
Citizenship for Blacks 405 THe 14th Amendment stated that all people born in the US was
automatically a full citizen with ALL the rights and privileges extended to citizens. The
Amendment also imposed penalties on States that would restrict the voting rights of male
citizens.
Congress let any Southern State that ratified the 14th Amendment join back, but only
Tennessee did so.
Three Reconstruction Bills 406 Congress was able to establish 3 bills that would plan out
Reconstitution. Every Former Confederate State (minus Tennessee since they joined already)
would be put under military control in 5 zones. The people in control of these zones would figure
out who could vote (all men who didn’t fight as a confederate) and then have them vote on a
new constitution and stuff. States would also have to ratify the 14th (and 15th for Texas and
Virginia since they were so slow to join) Amendment.
Fifteenth Amendment 406 This amendment forbade states to deny suffrage to citizens on
account of Race, Color, or Previous Condition of Servitude.
To get this through, Congress passed some pretty interesting (unconstitutional? probably)laws
that prevented the President from removing cabinet members without Senate approval. (to
Protect Edwin M Stanton who was allied with the Radical Republicans.) The other law
prevented the president from issuing Military Orders unless he went through the Commanding
General, who conveniently was now also only allowed to be fired by the Senate

[PAGE 122]
Tenure of Office Act 407 Johnson Kicked out Stanton (which went against that one bill
mentioned directly above). Radicals jumped on this moment to try and Impeach Johnson. It
does not go well.
Johnson Acquitted 407 Moderate Republicans who were becoming less thrilled with the
Radicals voted to Acquit Johnson. Yup. That’s it.
Scalawags 408 YARRR WHO ELSE BE FOLLOWING THE PIRATE CODE ryan this is not a
pirate term (._. ) clearly yifei is not a pirate.
Scalawag is a term for Southern White Republicans, basically those in the south that weren’t
that big on slavery and supported Republicans more than Democrats.
Carpetbaggers 408 An insulting term used for Northernern Republicans who moved into the
south, named after the cheap type of bag that many people pictured these Northerners using.
However, most of the people moving are middle class lawyers, teachers, and doctors. Many
were Union Veterans.
Freedmen 408 Many freed Slaves became politically active, creating their own conventions and
joining the Republican Party (most of the time). Most of the time these conventions would call
for equal rights and stuff. In addition, many towns and Churches were created by Freedmen to
support each other. African Americans would also begin serving in government more.
Of Course, many white Southerners weren’t too happy with the rising political power of freed
slaves, and claimed that African Americans would create a “Negro Rule” over their states.
(textbook’s words not mine)
Segregated Schools 409 OOPS! Turns out a highly racist South does not want equal treatment
regardless of race. The Educational system began to become segregated due to pure racism
alone. White Southerners refused to be schooled in the same places as African Americans. The
Freedmen's bureau tried making schools that all races could learn in, but White Southerners just
ignored these schools.
Failure of Land Redistribution 410 The Freedmen’s bureau took a big L because of Johnson.
The Freedmen’s Bureau had redistributed a significant amount of land to the newly Freed
Slaves, and over 10,000 families now had their own land. However, political and economic
pressure from the South led to Johnson forcing the Freedmen’s Bureau to return all the land to
white plantation owners.
Sharecropping 410 A New System where white landowners rented out land to African
Americans, who were expected to pay with a percentage of their crops. The main benefit of this
is that Former slaves get to work on their own, and Landowners now don’t have to worry about
workers’ wellbeing (like they did at all textbook).

[PAGE 123]
The textbook says this system was a good thing, but I doubt it given the rest of the book’s
questionable opinions.
NEw SYstem of Credit 411 Everyone in the South is kinda poor because of the March to the
Sea and stuff, so General Stores became important because a lot of stores couldn’t stock up on
tough stuff. Many General Stores turned to credit for people to get their stuff, and charged like
50% interest jesus christ.
So like imagine being broke and then buying a box of cereal from Walgreens with credit
And then you are in debt to Walgreens.
And if you don’t pay interest like doubles…
Changing Gender Roles 412 As reconstruction was hard on just about everybody, especially
newly freed African American families, there was a large demand for just about any able bodied
person to start working. In particular, women, and specifically African American women started
to enter the workforce due to this demand and as such moved away from the more
home-centric role they once played in families.
Ulysses S. Grant 412 After seeing the demographics of republican and democratic voters in the
U.S, Grant attempted to run for president in 1868 for the Republican party. With the help of the
newly enfranchised African American population, Grant garnered over 500,000 extra votes,
winning over former New York governor Horatio Seymour. As much as we love Ulysses S.
Grant, his political ventures are…more than lackluster. Grant didn’t really know what he was
doing and made full use out of the Spoils system once used by Andrew Jackson and was known
for the corruption in his cabinet and administration. Thankfully, we can remember him not as a
president but a leading factor to winning the Civil War.
Liberal Republicans 412 Grant’s political inadequacy led to a party of Republicans that started to
get fed up with their nominee and “Grantism”, causing them to start the “Liberal Republican”
movement/party/basketball team/book club and also to nominate Horace Greeley, an…editor for
the New York Tribune… Greeley was also nominated by the Democratic party, but in the end,
Grant was reelected in 1872 with a large majority.
Credit Mobilier 412
READING QUIZ#10 INFO STARTS HERE

[PAGE 124]
Panic of 1873 413 - After Jay Cooke and Company invested way too much into the railroad
infrastructure, it failed, and thus - banks became an untrustworthy source which then led to a
domino effect of banks collapsing all around! Debtors wanted the gov to redeem war bonds with
“greenbacks” - currency printed during the Civil War to increase money circulation. However,
Grant wanted a currency based on gold (and greenback was $356 mil in circulation). He tried
crushing the greenback dollar by passing the Specie Resumption Act - redeeming greenback
dollar for gold. This satisfied creditors but worried debtors because gold-based money could not
easily expand.
National Greenback Party 413 - “Greenbackers” formed their own political organization. Active
in the next 3 presidential elections. Kept the money issue alive but it failed to gain support.
Seward’s Folly 413 - William H. Seward fuckin hates President Johnson and decides to accept
Russian’s offer to sell Alaska for $7.2 mil. Lots of Americans didn’t like Alaska cuz it was just
cold with some random bears, so they called it “Seward’s Folly”.
Alabama Claims 413 - Hamilton FISH wanted to resolve the controversy with England over
American claims that the brits had violated neutrality laws during the civil war by allowing
English shipyards to build ships for the confeds. Americans said that the English should pay for
the damage those ships caused - known as the Alabama Claims! In 1871, FISH forms the
Treaty of Washington, which provided a court case (ARBITRATION) where Britain gets sad and
expresses their regret for the escape of the CSS Alabama Ship from England. (According to
textbook)
From Google: Britain ends up paying the americans 15.5 mil USD.
Ku Klux Klan 414 oh no.
A Secret Society that worked to enforce a Democrat Majority in the south that also worked to
disenfranchise African Americans. The KKK would be formed in 1866 be led by former
Confederate Nathan Bedford Forrest. It quickly absorbed many smaller white supremacy groups
and became a big elaborate organization. The Klan ran many “Midnight rides” of men in white
masks and sheets to terrorize African American Communities.
The overall public perception of the KKK was positive by many White Southerners, who saw
them as a patriotic group.
And then of course the Textbook proceeds to downplay the impact of the KKK, saying that
Economic Power(basically businesses refusing to serve and employ African Americans) was
more effective than the KKK at discouraging African American involvement in politics.
Enforcement Acts 414 LAws also known as the KKK Acts that prohibited States from
discriminating against voters on the basis of race. It also gave the Federal Government power to
overpower state courts and prosecute people who didn’t follow with the no discriminating thing.

[PAGE 125]
It also gave the President Power to use the Military to protect Civil Rights, something that was
actually used in 1871 in South Carolina.
Many Klan Members were tried, but few were actually convicted.
The Decline of the Klan 414 YIPPEE!
The Klan kind of had a skill issue after the Enforcement Acts and pretty much went into decline
afterward. They were still active, but their terror had hit the relative maximum on their terror
graph.
Impact of Social Darwinism 415 If you remember from AP Modern World History, Social
Darwinism was the idea that unemployed or unsuccessful simply had a dandori issue and were
inferior people. This idea of Darwinism made a lot of people view the poor African Americans as
a bunch of lazy criminals, which was pretty darn harsh. This stigma led to a cycle of poverty as
not many were willing to support African Americans due Social Darwinism.
Hayes vs Tilden 415 Following the unsuccessful Ulysses S. Grant presidency, the Republican
party decided to choose Rutherford B. Hayes, as their candidate, while the Democratic party
decided on Samual J. Tilden. Both were committed to more moderate reforms, leaning more in
the conservative direction.
Tilden had a nearly 300,000 popular vote lead, but in terms of electoral votes, Tilden had 184
votes which was actually one short of majority. It all came down to Louisiana, South Carolina,
Florida, and Oregon, who combined had 20 disputed votes(basically undetermined votes).
Special Electoral Commission 415 Congress stepped in to try and decide for the 20 disputed
votes(See Hayes Vs. Tilden), and what they proposed and ended up doing was a meeting in
which 5 senators, 5 reps, and 5 supreme court justices from both political party would show up
to dispute the result of the election with 1 independent(undecided) justice, who was really a
pro-Republican and as such, Hayes was inaugurated into the position of US President on March
4th.
Compromise of 1877 416 Basically, during this whole Hayes vs Tilden thing politicians from both
sides of the Country were meeting to try and figure out how they would swiftly end the debate
on the election basically as soon as the political deadlock began. What ended up happening
was Democratic politicians agreed for the election of Hayes as long as the Republican party
promised to get American troops out of the South. This is ironic because Hayes was already
planning to withdraw the troops in the first place. Along with this one, there were some other
smaller requests such as the requirement of one Southerner in Hayes’s cabinet, “general
internal improvements” whatever that means, and federal aid for Texas and the Pacific
Railroad(basically money into infrastructure, don’t think that needed to be vouched for but
whatever).
Republican Failure in the south 417 Hayes was already pretty unpopular since just about
everybody knew how exactly he was elected, even his promise of only serving one term pissed

[PAGE 126]
people off. Hayes attempted some moderate acceptance of African American rights, but mostly
failed since, well, they were unpopular with the White majority in the South. In addition, the
withdrawal of troops in the South means that there is now no way for the new laws implemented
by Hayes to be truly enforced there, and the biggest problem in the South just so happens to be
the issues of reconstruction…and African American rights. You can see what I’m getting at here
:|
Ideological Limits 417 As the next 100 years stretch on, we will see the issue of racial injustice
being the forefront of the US, even after the abolishment of slavery. This is in part due to the
massive amount of adversity that those who supported the idea of a racially equal US would
have to face. The ideals of racism had been deeply ingrained in the US, and most people in the
country wouldn’t give a second to think about giving a chance to fixing racial injustice in the US.
Bourbon Rule 418 Hayes’ withdrawal of the military left many Southerners excited about the
return of their “Home Rule”, which was far from reality. In reality, the South was once again
under the rule of a powerful conservative oligarchy known as the “Bourbons” (or Redeemers.
This oligarchy was mostly merchants and people who got rich off of the railroads, and were
often corrupt and were very keen on concentrating power and money into their small circle. As
such, Reconstruction was greatly slowed down. Tax money began to flow less and less towards
infrastructure, and schools were even considered “not a necessity”.
THe Readjuster Challenge 418 A lot of people were able to notice this corruption in power of the
Southern upper class, and one of these groups were known as the “Readjusters”, who in
Virginia began their, well, “readjustment”, gaining a large following of mostly lower income White
folk and a fair number of African Americans. Their main argument was that the state had been
using debt payments in the wrong areas, and that they should instead opt to have the money go
into state services. Unfortunately, this movement was quickly put down using the power of racial
prejudice. Textbook says nothing more.
Henry Grady 419 Some Southerners concluded that the South needed Industrialization, and
that because the Southern economy had been so weak due to the lack of Industrialization, the
South was unable to win the Civil War. These people supported this idea of a “New South”, one
that would “out-Yankee the Yankees”. Henry Grady, an editor for the Atlanta Constitution was
one of these. The textbook says nothing about Henry Grady himself besides this, but I think it is
important to note that this ideal was not very popular with the vast majority of the South. Many
Southerners looked fervently in the direction of the Old South/Antebellum period and
romanticized the idea of the Lost Cause and, of course, slavery.
Railroad Development 419 Southern industry, although still lagging behind their Northern
counterparts(obviously) began to see the largest industrial growth it had ever seen before. The
Textile industry grew by nearly 10 times, thanks to the development of water power that was
present in the South and the cheap labor available along with low taxes. Railroads were also
developed from 1880-90, integrating itself into the Northern railroad system as well. This seems
all cool and all until you realize that 10*0 is still 0 (Me when math) , so in reality, not much was

[PAGE 127]
done, and all that really happened was that the effects of the Civil War were reversed and the
South had returned to its pre-war state(infrastructure wise).
Convict Lease System 420 Reconstruction and infrastructure projects were both super labor
heavy, and only certain industries offered labor to African Americans, which in my opinion is
really dumb since it is readily available labor but whatever. This was made up for by the “Convict
Lease system” in which groups of prisoners were “leased” to businesses with…0 pay… Along
with this, these convicts often worked the most dangerous tasks with little to no breaks or
reprise, leading many to painful deaths.
Tenants and Sharecropping Thanks the aforementioned Bourbon rule, most land was also
concentrated into a small group of the super rich. These people would often allow people to live
on their land and farm it as long as they paid annual rent or, in most cases, sharecrop, which
basically has the landlords taking a portion of the annual income from the tenants. Tenants were
given nothing more than a shitty house, a small plot of land and maybe a mule if they were
lucky.
Black Middle Class 421 A number of African Americans were able to make it in the South during
reconstruction, starting businesses or entering skilled professions. These African Americans
adopted more white middle class family habits such as dressing nicely and uh…basically just do
anything that anybody else would honestly. I don’t have a clue why the textbook makes such a
big deal about this. Like do you think lower class people in general can dress nice in the first
place?
Booker T Washington 422 African Americans that had just been freed believed in the idea that
education was the key to success and the future of the US, and as such black colleges and
schools popped up all over the South during reconstruction. Booker T. Washington became an
important figure and spokesman for the African American community in the South, urging many
African Americans to go to school and focus on self-improvement along with learning useful
skills that would find them jobs in the future.
The Atlanta Compromise 422 Booker T Washington gave a speech that basically entailed that
African Americans would basically be in constant struggle with prejudice, but it is because of
this reason that they should take up arms and work harder to strive for not only equality but a
better future for all African Americans. Although encouraging, it was also him accepting that
African Americans for generations to come would still be stuck in a system of segregation.
Plessy Vs Ferguson 422 bruh how long has this ferguson guy been alive Another super
important court case in the US, Homer Plessy was arrested for sitting in the Whites Only section
of a train. Plessy was later kicked out of the train and arrested, but this was his plan all along.
Bringing the court all the way up to the Supreme Court, Plessy argued against John Ferguson
for the equal rights of African Americans, but ultimately failed, and in the end Ferguson won by
basically saying that the constitution don’t say nothing about equal rights being unconstitutional,
therefore, this court case instated Segregation as the norm in the US. :|

[PAGE 128]
Restricting the Franchise 423 To keep African Americans out of voting ballots, the US started
restricting the people that could legally vote. Property ownership was a requirement for voting,
and a “literacy test” was employed to determine who could vote. The stupid thing was that this
“literacy test” was skewed so that White voters could easily pass it, but African Americans were
also kept out. And even if they could, the threat of violence from White voters was so high that
many African Americans became very reluctant to even step in a one mile radius of voting
ballots. Another way that many states tried to make White voters the majority was by introducing
“grandfather laws' ', which would allow for men who had ancestors that had passed the stupid
literacy test or property ownership policies to vote. This seems great for African Americans,
right? WRONG! African Americans lineage often didn’t have people who could pass these
literacy tests, therefore virtually nothing changed for African Americans, and White Americans
that could have been once deemed unqualified now could vote just cuz their dad did in the past.
White Control Perpetuated 424 Along with segregation laws, Jim Crow laws stripped African
Americans of virtually all opportunity socially and economically. Laws were put in place to keep
African Americans out of power virtually 100% of the time.
Lynchings 424 oh man ! Thanks to Jim Crow laws, white people were allowed to get away with
basically any crime on an African American. The worst by far being Lynchings. Not much needs
to be said here that you guys don’t already know, but just for context: starting from 1890, an
average of 187 lynchings happened annually (that is 1 lynching every other day).
The textbook goes into detail about how some of these lynchings happened, so if you wanna
skip that feel free to see the next term, otherwise don’t read past this.
Lynchings were often celebrated by mobs of white people, and were held publically, with some
people even travelling just to see them. These lynchings were justified by the idea that most of
the victims had committed crimes(they did not, and if they did they were the smallest and
pettiest of them all). Along with this, lynch mobs didn’t actually do anything to research said
crime, often just acting off of assumption, that assumption being mostly false.
White Unity 428 White supremacy was used as a tool for the Southern oligarchy to stay in
power. The many economic issues many lower income white people faced were often set aside
so that white people could together, in unity, support…white supremacy (._. ) yeah the textbook
needs to fucking STOP. the textbook then says this:
Which uh. ??????? Like ok sure, but, you’re acting like poor african americans didn’t also have
a burden of being poor . Like did you think that it was only poor white people that had the burden
of being poor? And that African Americans were perfectly happy being poor? >:(
Stopping here for today APUSH textbook is bullshit

[PAGE 129]
Myth and Reality 431 As more people settled the West, the region became more familiar, turning
from the “Great American desert” into the “frontier” that we know so well. The lands were
considered empty and just waiting for white Americans to settle. This is not the reality, as we
know well enough by now. The American West had already been inhabited by people of all sorts
of cultures and backgrounds, ranging from Indigenous peoples all the way to Asian Americans.
These diverse cultures and backgrounds resulted in the wide range of diversity in the American
frontier.
Caste System 432 Holy shit India reference. Here’s a throwback to the start of the year:
Pueblos. The Pueblo people located in the Southwest region used an elaborate Caste system in
their society. If you don’t know what a caste system is, a caste system is basically a social
hierarchy/pyramid. Thanks to the Spanish influence, the Pueblo people had a caste system
based on, you guessed it, race, with Spanish and Mexicans at the top and Indigenous peoples
who were either no longer part of their respective tribe or PoWs, or in a lot of cases, enslaved at
the bottom.
Plains Indians 432 “Plains Indians” were groups of Native Americans that resided in the
American MidWest. Their tribes were in constant alliances and conflict with each other at all
times, had elaborate economies, differing languages, but overall had similar traits due to their
close contact. Most tribes were split into “bands” of 500 men and women combined, who would
mostly self govern. In these tribes, gender roles were very split, with men heading the military
and hunting, while women did the cooking and raised children. These groups were mostly
agricultural. Yeah I mean that’s it.
One important thing that is hard to fit anywhere is the importance of the Sioux people. The
Sioux people were considered the most powerful tribe, as their military prowess was unmatched
by the rest of their peers and was in large part due to their strong horses that were gained from
the Spanish generations ago.
Economic Importance of the Buffalo 432 Buffalo became a massive part of the lifestyle of the
Plains Indigenous people in America. The Skin was used for clothing and other cloth-related
stuff, flesh was used for meat, bones were used for tools, tendons for bowstrings, and even the
manure for fertilizer.
Indian Weaknesses 433 It was only a matter of time for the Plains Indigenous people before
they were eventually invaded by white Americans. Their land was already deemed American
territory and they still lacked immunity to many diseases, along with the technological and
economical advantage that White Americans had.
Taos Indian Rebellion 433 After the Americans invaded and acquired New Mexico, General
Stephen Kearny was put under the control of the region, and was assigned the responsibility of
assigning governors to the region. Ignoring the overwhelming majority of 50,000 Mexicans in the
region, Kearny opted to choose from the pool of 1,000 White Americans. This outraged the

[PAGE 130]
people of the New Mexico region, and in 1847, a group of Taos Indigenous peoples rebelled and
killed some of these chosen governors.
Hispanic Resistance 434 Hispanic societies survived in the Southwest region due to the fact
that they were so far away from White people, and also made sure to properly resist White
settlers by fending off cattle ranchers. There is no significance, no point, no nothing added to the
rest of this term so I will leave it off here I guess.
Decline of the Mission Society In the 1830s the new Mexican government began to reduce the
power the church held, significantly reducing the influence that missions had. This caused the
large- scale collapse of the missions across western US and Mexico.
Decline Status of Hispanics 434 The increase in the Anglo-Americans moving west into
California before and after the Civil war severely outnumbered the number of Californios(the
hispanic residents of Cali). Often because of this increase in Anglo communities NorCal was
often more populated with English speakers while SoCal was often where the larger pop. of
Hispanic people lived with many working in ranches. But this doesn't last long as a large drought
destroys this Hispanic ranching culture. Over time the hispanic population of cali began to
integrate into the anglos becoming a part of the lower working class in LA or becoming farmers.
This decline not only happens in Cali but also in Texas. When Texas finally joined the US as a
state many Mexican land owners lost their land and territory. Just like in cali, as more Anglos
moved to texas and as the Anglo Ranching Kingdom grew the Hispanic ranching culture was
taken over by the anglo ranchers. Also similarly the mexican ranchers went into lower working
classes or as unskilled farming.
Anglo, Anglo-Americans - English speaking American
Racism (against the Chinese) 435 aww shucks ! Prior to all this racism the chinese people
immigrating were welcomed because they were seen as hard workers. But in the 1850s
Chinese people started working in gold mines just like everyone else and some even found a lot
of success. But soon enough the US passed the foreign miners tax, discouraging all “foreigners”
from wanting to mine gold. Then throughout the 1850s more laws were passed discouraging
Chinese emigration .
Building the Transcontinental Railroad 436 After the decline of other jobs in labor and in gold
mines, Chinese people had to find jobs elsewhere. The construction of the Transcontinental
Railroad became this opportunity for over 12,000 Chinese people. The Central Pacific portion of
this railroad was 90% made of chinese laborers, because of the large population of chinese
people on the west, their expandability, low wages, and their trait for being hard workers.
我喜欢冰淇淋，但是不喜欢吃冰淇淋！
In 1866

[PAGE 131]
Establishment of Chinatowns 436 Many Chinese immigrants ended up living in very urban
areas like SF. This led to the creation of Chinatowns, as many marginalized Chinese tried to
create their own home away from home. These societies also revolved around powerful
organizations that would address common issues for Chinese living in the Americas. In fact,
some of these organizations are still running today!( I would know my dad had to deal with all of
em which meant i had to go to a lot of banquets and other rich people meetups)
What was also a thing in Chinatown were Tongs (i.e triad, chinese mafia, you get the idea)
They often made money through CRIME like drug dealing (gotta get that opium) and
prostitution.
Small Businesses like laundromats became a common way for people to make money in these
Chinatowns.
Anti Coolie Clubs 436 People really didn’t like the Chinese, so they made their own
organizations dedicated to not liking the Chinese! They sought to ban Chinese employment and
worked by Boycotting Chinese Businesses and attacking Chinese people. Eventually some of
these organizations would gain political power and also cultural and social power as well.
Chinese Exclusion Act 437 In 1882 Congress passed the Chinese Exclusion Act, which
prevented Chinese laborers from entering the country, except for merchants, which is a loophole
many exploited.The law was maintained for a while, and was even made permanent (the law
had 10 year extensions for a while) in 1902.
Chinese Resistance 437 As you might expect, Chinese people were mildly annoyed (very mad)
at these new laws directly targeting them. Many insisted that they deserved their rights and
were outraged that other immigrants like the Irish were not treated the same way.
Homestead act 437 Passed in 1862, the Homestead Act allowed settlers to buy land for cheap if
they lived there for 5 years and improved the land. Intended to give a lot of people a head start
farming and stuff, the lawmakers forgot a really important part of farming: people need to buy
farm equipment. So you had a bunch of people buy land, but they couldn’t afford farming
equipment to do stuff with it. Also 160 acres wasn’t enough land to do much with.
Government Assistance 438 The Government had to improve the whole Homestead act thing a
lot, so they gave out more land for even cheaper. However, this became the new meta exploit
for people who were already rich. The new meta was 1. Be rich 2. Bribe people for more land.
Through this exploit, many corporations seized MILLIONS of acres.
READING QUIZ#10 INFO ENDS HERE
Limited Social Mobility 439 Even though people could move to the west, people couldn’t really
improve their social situation. The poor remained relatively poor, and the rich people had the

[PAGE 132]
opportunity to buy a bunch of new land and become richer. In the end, wealth distribution had
become relatively similar to the Eastern parts of America.
Racially Stratified WOrking Class 439 The working class was a diverse group of people of many
races. Too bad everyone hated each other. White workers typically were able to climb socially
and economically, while everyone else was condemned to manual labor for most of their lives.
In addition, WHITE employers typically assumed that Chinese, Mexican, Filipino, and other not
white workers were better for manual labor, and therefore yearned for the mines.
Life Cycle of a Mining Boom 439 After the 1848 California Gold Rush and it’s subsequent
smaller Gold Rushes, miners actually found great fortune mining out the mountains and
plateaus of the region which were rich in all sorts of minerals. This mining boom lasted for
around 30 years before it eventually collapsed (these resources after all are limited, so as time
goes on, profits diminish). This was in fact the case for all the Gold and Silver rushes that went
on in California, with miners moving from one mineral to another, first Gold and Silver, then Lode
and Quartz, and then whatever was leftover, until the land was devoid of all precious metals.
Comstock Lode 439 During the period of the Colorado Gold Rush of 1859(another large and
famous Gold Rush), miners found an abundance of Comstock Lode(named after Henry
Comstock) in the Nevada region, specifically in the Washoe district. This led to a ton of
Californians moving in search of this Lode fortune in Nevada, and as a result led to the
development and settlement of the mostly White settler-free Nevada.
Gender Imbalance 441 Because mining was only considered a “man’s job” back in the day, it
became apparent that men greatly outnumbered the women in California and the other Western
regions, and women that did come were often there with their families. Single women that did
come to the West often worked for wages as cooks, tavern keepers and other service jobs, and
of course, with that many dudes around there was always a market for prostitution.
Mexican Origins 441 In the middle great plains areas cattle ranching industry contributed alot to
the changing economy. Many of these people who work in cattle industry such as the cattlers
and the cowboys(yeehaw) took their techniques and equipment from Mexican Cattlers. Many of
these were used by American Texans and by the end of the Civil War Texas had the largest
cattle kingdom in the States
Chisholm Trail 442 Cattle Industry was booming evrywehre in the mid-US area causing a use of
trails such as the Chisholm Trail to transport cattle from texas to kansas. (more but i dont wanna
do that stuff)
Political Gains for Women 443 Women who lived in the western US suffrage earlier than the rest
of the nation. Aside from some states/territories giving women for niche reasons most states
granted suffrage for the reason that women were seen as more generous, or virtuous.

[PAGE 133]
Rocky Mountain School 443 It was a group of artists that traveled west to paint the nature such
as the rockies, the rockies plateaus, the great plains, and the sierra nevada. These pieces of
arts cause people to be fascinated the west which causes a influx in tourism to the west.
Someone is impersonating me i didnt do these terms. Nvm i have short term memory i did do
these
Myth of the Cowboy 443 yee haw The Cowboy has been an American icon for the past 200
years, and it’s lifestyle of loneliness, physical discomfort and low pay breaks the myth and the
idolization of such a lifestyle that many Americans have. It is thanks to movies and novels such
as Owen Wister’s The Virginian that the cowboy has received such a remarkable reputation in
the 1900s. The Cowboy was just another job that has been overromanticized by the media,
such as the Knight, Ninja, or Samurai.
Romantic Image of the West 444 America had its culture largely built on expansion into new
territory, as we all know, Europeans came to the country with nothing (besides guns, diseases,
metal gear, livestock, and big money from investors and other rich people) and miraculously
managed to expand all the way West (by murdering the Indigenous peoples that had been there
for millenia). As the American land mass began to slowly become more and more settled by
White Americans, there was a ton of romanticization of the land that had been considered the
“final frontier”. This, like Cowboys, was also driven by the media. Mark Twain’s Adventure of
Tom Sawyer and Adventures of Huckleberry Finn portrayed this idea of the “Final Frontier” to a
large audience, only driving the popularity of the idea (and romanticization).
Frederic Remington 444 As we discussed in the term directly above, big big over romanization
of the West and the “final frontier”. Another person like Mark Twain that contributed to this idea
was Frederick Remington, a painter and sculptor who was largely responsible for making
cowboys the oh-so reverend figures we consider them today. Looking at his art, it’s actually
kinda fire I won’t lie.
Turner’s Frontier Thesis 445 Some guy named Frederick Jackson Turner, a historian from the
University of Wisconsin argued that the American frontier, and it’s demise was the end of one of
the “most important democratizing forces in American life”. Basically he just said by
accomplishing “Manifest Destiny”, the Americans were destroying American culture. This
however, is not true since Americans, Indigenous peoples, and Hispanic peoples had already
been living on these lands for a while.
Psychological Loss 447 I honestly have no clue why the past 5 terms are even in the fucking
textbook but whatever. Basically since the West was now fully occupied by White settlers, its
psychological damage was so great that a part of the American culture was therefore destroyed.
A historian named Henry Nash Smith, would later dub this the “myth of the garden”, in reference
to the Garden of Eden where a person could begin a new life with new opportunities, in this
case, the garden being the American West. Interpret that sentence however you wanna.

[PAGE 134]
Concentration Policy 448 The US, who viewed Indigenous tribes as their own sovereign entities,
yet while having rule over these groups of people constantly struggled with a set policy on how
to treat these people that most definitely accept some random mayo monkeys coming out of
nowhere claiming that they now rule over them. For an all-encompassing law, the Federal
government decided on the Concentration Policy, which would force Indigenous people to sign
treaties that would relocate them to new locations, with these treaties signed by people that
were chosen by…white people…
Poorly Administered Reservations 448 In 1867, Congress established the “Indian Peace
Commission”, which would replace the concentration policy with a plan to move all the Plains
indigenous people to 2 large reservations in Oklahoma and the Dakotas. By using bribes,
trickery and corruption, the respective groups all ended up agreeing to this treaty. The expelling
of Indigenous peoples off their land to the new reservations was to be supervised by White
management that were mostly very incompetent, with no understanding of the people they were
managing and lack of logistical knowledge, messing up supplies, payments, so forth.
Decimation of the Buffalo 448 American Settlers dunked on the populations of Buffalo that many
Indigenous people relied on for their survival. By 1875, less than a thousand buffalo were left
alive. By killing so many buffalo, Americans had basically starved thousands of people, and
reinforced people’s ideas that coexisting impossible
Indian Resistance 449 With white people moving west and taking over Indigenous territory, the
natives feel treatened. Becuase of this Indigenous warriors form raiding parties to attacked
wagon trains, stagecoaches, and ranches. Soon after when the US army gets involved the
warriors start targetting white soilders. Evenually these small fights between indigenous raid
parties and the US Army escalates very close to a war. In Minnisota the Sioux tribe starts a
rebellion lead by Little Crow against the the American Goverment placing restrictions on them.
In this act of resistance the indigenous killed 700 white people before being stopped where 30
Indigenous were hanged and the tribe was exiled to the Dekotas.
Sand Creek Massacre 449 In Eastern Colorado the Arapaho and Cheyenne tribes were
attacking the miners that were settling here to try and regain their land. In response to this a
large territorial militia was sent to regain “their land”. The governer of this area asks the freindly
indigenous to camp out near army posts for protection. SOOOOO Cheif Black Kettle(kettle??)
goes with many other indigenous people to camp in Sand Creek near Fort Lyon for safety. Then
the commander of the area with many volunteer militia men, and unemployed miners
(ALLEGEDLY drunk) went to Sand Creek and massacared over 250 people.
Black Kettle and some other indigenous who escaped the massacre to the border of texas. 4
years later is found and the rest of the survivors are killed.
aiden spell words challenge???
Jk love you aiden
Indian Hunting 449 In places like California, killing Indigenous people became kind of a sport.
Wow that’s fucked up. Some people who didn’t want to murder but still wanted to participate put

[PAGE 135]
bounties up for people who killed Indigenous people. A lot of people were dedicated to this
ethnic cleansing. What are the consequences of this? Good Question! The book sweeps this
under the rug.
Little Bighorn 451 A battle where many Indigenous people ambushed and killed General Custer
and 264 members of his army. Who is Custer? Uh the book says he’s an important glory
seeking gu in y so i’m assuming he is a scumbag or something but that’s not really important.
What is important is that this battle is like the one time multiple groups of Indigenous people get
together and form an army. After the battle, the army kinda broke up apart as supplies dwindled.
Chief Joseph 451 Leader of the Nez Perce Tribe, Chief Joseph led his group of like 500 people
on a journey to Canada to escape violence and getting put in a reservation, both things the US
government wanted. Just before they reached the border, the US pulled up and Joseph and
most of his people gave up. He and his tribe were sent from one reservation to another and
many of his followers died of starvation and disease. (wow poor guy…)
Ghost Dance 452 A movement similar to Taki Onqoy from AP World, some indigenous person
had a vision of a White Retreat from the plains and a return of the Buffalo. The key part of this
movement was the “Ghost Dance”.
Yeah the textbook doesn’t really say much about it huh?
Wounded Knee 452 Custer’s Former Unit (the one that got dunked on in Little Bighorn) tried to
round up a group of 350 Sioux and about 40 white soldiers died when they fought back.
However, 300 Sioux Died WTF) and yeah it was a massacre. That’s it
Assimilation 453 The Dawes Act gave Land to Indigenous families based on how many people
were in their direct family. The idea was to get Indigenous people to start getting used to land
ownership. In addition, this act did a little trolling and set people’s kids to boarding schools to be
assimilated into white culture. They were also taught the ways of Christianity. Uh oh.
This whole program was pretty corrupt and really didn’t do much.
Key Role of the Railroad 453 The Railroad was important for agricultural settlement because
people could
a. Travel faster (no way)
b. Transport good (no way)
Railroad companies made fare cheap and sold land for cheap to encourage people to move
westward as well.
Barbed Wire 454 Barbed Wire (which was not electrified because nobody had car batteries)
solved the great problem of getting cattle to STAY ON THE DAMN FARM GODDAMMIT. Yeah
this is the NEW FENCE META FOR FARMING + 300 LP + $1000 CATTLE MONEY REAL.

[PAGE 136]
Drought 454 In the plains states, water was mostly obtained from the Mississippi river, and
when your source for water is limited to just 1, it becomes REALLY hard to get consistent water
at all times. In 1887, a long dry season began, turning fertile lands into deserts. Farmers turned
to “dryland farming”, where farmers would use deep wells powered by windmills to get water
from underground. Unfortunately, this was not enough to help out farmers, and government
intervention or funding was desperately needed.
Hard Times for Farmers 454 Due to the droughts in the 1880s, farmers obviously found it pretty
hard to be alive. Crop prices also fell to the floor, and because many of them had debts to pay, a
lot of farmers started moving back East towards their old homes and families. This resulted in
many ghost towns across the plains area that can probably still be found today.
Consequences of Overproduction 455 Overproduction of specific crops was happening globally.
This caused the American farming industry to crash. I mean, this is nothing new, the past 2
terms have been saying this I don’t know. This resulted in many poor farmers who could not
afford land. So who profits the most off of this? Landlords that rent out land to the farmers.
Isolation 455 Because so many people were leaving for the East, farm families that stayed West
were often left in complete isolation, where they had to provide 100% for themselves. Because
they also had no access to good schools, medical facilities, or any recreational activities, many
children left for cities, showing a growing dominance in the American urban life’s pull.
Transformation of the National Economy 459 The US had become the world’s first
manufacturing nation by 1890, achieving what the UK had done in half the time(not really). This
showed the full transformation of an agricultural economy to a manufacturing one. This term is
in the info paragraph of the chapter so there isn’t much here.
New Steel Production Techniques 459 Thanks to the domestic demand of railroads and other
steel and iron products, the US had become a hub for steel production and innovation. Henry
Bessemer and William Kelly found a process in which they could convert iron into a very strong
steel. This process also relied on British metallurgist Robert Mushet’s findings in which he
added other ingredients to iron to transform said iron into steel (whoa that’s something AP
Chem related!). Last example: New Jersey ironmaster Abram S. Hewitt found a method from
Europe that would also help steelmaking, the open-hearth furnace. I don’t know why the
textbook makes a big hoopla about American innovation when in reality it was European
innovation but go off.
Pittsburgh 460 Pitssburgh quickly became a center for the steelworks world, sporting a large
supply of ore for people to use and innovate with. Along with Pittsburgh, the North East region
such as Cleveland, Detroit, Chicago, and Birmingham also became very important regions for
steel and ironworks.
Rise of Petroleum Industry 460 Ah, this is where things get REALLY American. Steel works
require a lot of lubricant(not that type you fucking immature loser), and as such, a new industry

[PAGE 137]
popped up in the US, petrol (remember, it is NOT being used as a fuel source just yet).
Pennsylvania became the first center for oil production in the US. George Bissel became one of
the first to exploit this, raising money to start drilling for oil.
Henry Ford 461 Perhaps the most important person in American manufacturing history, Henry
Ford developed the automobile industry in the US, building the company named after him in the
early 1900s and making excellent use out of (exploiting his employees and being a terrible
person) the conveyor belt for production and profit.
Corporate Research and Development 462 During the 1900s, America received a massive
wave of innovation and technological advancement, from Henry Ford to the Wright brothers.
Because of this, America began to become more and more corporate, with massive companies
owning huge stakes in the economy, such as the Bell Telephone, Du Pont, GE, and Kodak.
Transformation of Higher Education 462 Scientists and Engineers started to hate each other for
uh. Some reason? The textbook does NOT do a good job explaining this. But all you really need
to know is that this time is when science and engineering really started to be grouped together
because Scientists and Engineers had to work together.
Taylorism 462 Taylorism is the idea that workers should divide tasks to separate employees.
Basically one person does this, another person does that, not everybody doing the same thing.
Not much else needs to be said, there’s no real cause and effect here, just an idea.
Moving Assembly Line 463 In 1914, Henry Ford introduced the technique of the assembly line,
cutting the time for assembling parts of a car from 12 to 1 hour, and slashed prices of the Model
T down to a third of the price because of the sheer amount of cars that could be assembled.
Rapid Expansion of the Railroad 463 During the 19th century, the largest growing US
infrastructure project was far and away the railroad. From 1860 to 1900, around 140,000 miles
of rail were constructed. To fund the construction of the railroads, investors were needed, and
those that invested in these railroads the most became some of the most powerful people in the
country, such as Cornelius Vanderbilt, James J Hill and Collis P Huntington.
Limited Liability 464 During the 1830s and 1840s, companies started to sell stock to the public
to raise money and incentivise investors. This practice only grew as America became more and
more corporate. Affluent members of American society began putting large portions of their
money into said stock and this was viewed as investments. The appeal of these investments
was that by buying stock, they only had “limited liability”, meaning that even if they lost money,
they wouldn’t lose that much, and that they as investors were not very liable if the company
failed.
Andrew Cargenie 464 A Scottish immigrant who opened a Pittsburgh steel work in 1873,
Andrew Carnegie became one of the largest figures in the industry using a wide range of
techniques to dominate the steelworks industry in the US. Carnegie became by far the most

[PAGE 138]
successful and powerful figure in the steel and railroad market, amassing a fortune so great in
stock that he eventually cashed out to JP Morgan for $450,000,000, an absurd amount in
today’s money.
New Managerial Techniques 465 New management techniques were also found in the US, with
Gustavus Swift developing the “middle manager” executive, which would form a layer of
command between workers and owners (basically a company hierarchy). These techniques
punctured every hole in the US corporate world, and are the basis for American corporate
culture today and across the globe honestly (hence why East Asian corporate life is so fucking
miserable).
Horizontal and Vertical Integration 465 Big companies gained more profit through 2 means:
horizontal integration and vertical integration. Horizontal integration was basically combining a
bunch of companies into the same enterprise, and vertical integration was the method in which
companies would take over other businesses that said company relied on, for example a tech
company acquiring the company that manufactures its products.
Rockefeller’s Standard Oil 465 John Rockefeller’s Standard Oil was a prime example of using
Horizontal and Vertical integration to its fullest potential, becoming one of the largest corporate
empires in the US, and effectively one of the first monopolies, controlling 90% of the refined oil
in the US.
The Trust Agreement 465 The “trust”, pioneered by Standard Oil and perfected by JP Morgan,
the “trust” as an agreement in which stockholders in smaller companies transferred their stock
to a group of investors, and then the original stockholders would then buy shares of those
investors they just gave their stock to.
Rapid Corporate Consolidation 467 America had become a country of monopolies. Under 1% of
companies owned 33% of the manufacturing market, and bankers such as JP Morgan and
industrial figures such as Rockefeller had an incredible amount of power over the American
population and economy.
Myth of the Self-Made Man 467 The US had a myth that everybody had a chance to succeed
and attain great wealth such as the figures mentioned above. Although technically true, in
practice it was nearly impossible. The American corporate ladder was a thin, creaky one that
only a select few could ever hope to climb (unless you were born rich).
DONE
FUCK
We gotta go up to page 470 :DDDDDDDDD SO HAPPY

[PAGE 139]
Social Darwinism 471 People tools Darwin’s Law of Evolution and began to apply it to human
society. Darwinists claimed that only the fittest individuals in human society succeed and get
rich. That meant that the poor were inferior to the rich genetically, and a whole lotta
discriminating stuff.
Justifying the Status Quo 471 Social Darwinism was used to justify the wealth gap and the poor
labor conditions that many worked in. People claimed that raising wages would lead to disaster
because the poor were destined to be poor. yeah.
Russell Conwell 471 A Minister who preached the idea of “acres of diamonds, or that ordinary
people could find wealth and riches on working their land. He also preached that anyone could
become a millionaire.
Horatio Alger 472 Another Minister who was no longer a minister due to uh (sexual assault)
Who became an author. He wrote many novels of ordinary people becoming rich and famous
and he became a folk hero. He was also gay. The texbook just threw that in. ok.
Lester Frank Ward 472 A Darwinist (but not a social Darwinist), he argued that civilization
should be ruled by the intelligent. He also believed that the government and proper planning
would save the economy and adjust it to fit the needs of the people.
Henry George 473 An Author who argued that poverty was a bad thing (revolutionary idea), and
tried to analyze the reasons why poverty existed. He argued that the rising value of land and the
creation of monopolies lead to the creation of a great wealth disparity. In addition, he argued
that all taxes should be replaced with a single tax that would scale per person. He argued that
this would distribute wealth more evenly.
Looking Backward 473 A Novel by Edward Bellamy that is about a guy who sleeps until 2000
(huni??) and find a new social order where all bad stuff is gone, and the world is peaceful, and
everything is awesome.
Why is this here? Idk man.
Increasing Inequality 475 The wealth inequality got REALLY bad, where 10 million people at
least lived BELOW the poverty line. The wealth disparity was increasing, and the rich became
more and more influential over the country.
New Sources of Immigration 476 Immigrants from Ireland and England became less common,
and More Southern and Eastern Europeans began to move to America. Mexicans were pretty
common immigrants and Chinese WERE common immigrants until, you know.

[PAGE 140]
Heightened Ethnic Tensions 476 More immigrants led to a lot of tension between ethnic groups
as immigrants are usually willing to work for cheaper to get jobs. This leads to tensions because
jobs are lost, and wages overall are lowered.
Loss of Control 477 The Average worker got a lot less powerful in the grand scheme of things.
Skilled workers became unnecessary due to machines doing a lot of the work, and As
corporations grew and managers became a thing, unions and workers in general became
extremely weak.
Poorly Paid Women 477 Women were paid a lot less than women, even in the same jobs as
men in factories. Wages for women were like $5 a week, which is significantly less (about half)
than men and definitely not enough to survive on
Ineffective Child Labor laws 478 Child labor yippee! (sarcasm). At least 1.7 MILLION kids were
employed. Laws passed to prevent child labor were passed, except they had exceptions for
agriculture, where most child labor was present. OOP. Other laws set the age MINIMUM at 12
with a workday of 10 hours. Yeah! Plus a lot of kids died handling heavy machinery.
National Labor Union 478 The National Labor Union was the first major National Union (no
way). They disbanded after the panic of 1873. But while they were a thing, they argued to have
women not work in factories because they were paid less (and therefore the men were paid less
as well). The textbook then says that many women agreed with the notion that they should be in
domestic work (WHAT), and used this as justification for men being paid more so that women
can afford to work in the home???? what????
Molly Maguires 479 A Militant labor organization in Pennsylvania consisting of mostly coal
workers. They tried to get better working conditions through violence and murder, leading to the
perception of all unions as a bunch of terrorists. They were also used as justification to violently
suppress unions.
National Strike 479 The Great Railroad Strike of 1877 began when railroads announced a
whopping 10% pay cut to everyone. Strikers then disrupted rail service from Baltimore to St
Louis and destroyed a lot of equipment. There were also a lot of riots. The military was called in
and a lot of people died. However, no real improvements happened because of this strike.
Dissolution of the Knights of Labor 480 Union formed in 1869 of many workers, skilled and
unskilled. Super against child labor, and the main vision was to have industries owned by
workers instead of capitalists. African Americans and women were also allowed in the union and
had a number of successful strikes.
Opposition to Female Employment 480 Men in unions would very against women working telling
them to stay home

[PAGE 141]
THe AFL’s Agenda 481 The Afl wanted to focus on the relationship between Laborers and
management. It supported the most important things to get laborers on their side, which were
better wages and safer working conditions. In addition, the AFL was willing to get people to
strike if they needed to
Haymarket Square 481 In Chicago, a strike gets violent when someone throws a BOMB AT THE
POLICE. This led to the police opening fire on everyone. The strikers were blamed for the
violence and 8 were arrested and sentenced to death. This made people a lot less enthusiastic
about labor unions and strikes overall.
Henry Clay Frick 481 what the frick dude Henry Clay FRICK was Carnegie’s chief lieutenant
and he cut wages at Carnegie’s factories. At first, unions folded because they could not muster
up enough strength to strike. However, when the unions were strong enough to and went on
strike, Frick called in the Pinkertons to deal with them and fighting broke out. The pinkertons
had to surrender and leave, but then the National Guard came in to protect Scab workers.
The Union Defeated 482 Frick’s battle with the Strikers led to the defeat of the Amalgamated
Union, dropping from 24000 members to only 7000. Its decline was indicative of the power of
unions as a whole (or lack thereof).
Eugene Debs 482 Eugene was the leader of the American Railway Union. He supported a strike
against the Pullman Company by getting his supporters to not deal with Pullman cars and
equipment. However, the General Managers’ Association (think union but for managers)
convinced their people to fire and replace strikers. This back and forth quickly led to the
shutdown of railroads from Chicago to the coast.
A lot of governors tried to get things back to normal by force, but the Governor of Illinois refused
to use his militia.
Shifting Nature of the Workforce 483 Laborers were weak because many immigrants assumed
that they would be working temporarily until they could make some money. In addition, the
assumption that immigrants would have no real future in the country (due to discrimination and
laws like the Chinese Exclusion Act) weakened the will for Immigrants to unionize and change
things. Other workers were constantly moving
Corporate Strength 483 Corporations gained a lot of strength due to the sheer amount of money
and influence these companies had (after all, people relied heavily on steel, oil, and railroads).
These corporations were willing to destroy any efforts to challenge their profit margins.

[PAGE 142]
START OF SPRING
Don’t get confused between fall and spring semester reading quiz numbers ty
READING QUIZ#1 INFO STARTS HERE
Rapid Urban Growth 487 By the 1920s, a majority of the AMerican people lived in urban areas,
anywhere with 2500 people ore more. New York had almost 3 million people, and other cities
had similar levels of growth. The city attracted many people from rural areas with conveniences,
entertainment, and a new way to experience American culture not found in small rural towns.
Geographic Mobility 488 As cities became more urban, many more people moved out of Rural
areas to live in cities. A decent amount of people moving were young women who had little
opportunity in rural farms.
African American Communities 489 Chat we are back at it again!! By the end of the 19th
century, there were substantial African American communities in over thirty cities, many of them
in the South. Black communities established in the late 19th century paved the way for the great
population movements of the future.
THe Diverse American City 490 Other countries that were experiencing heavy immigration in
this period were facing immigrants coming from one or two sources. For example, in Argentina,
almost everyone was coming from Italy and Spain. However, in the United States, substantial
groups arrived from all over the world, and, in some towns, a dozen different ethnic groups
found themselves living in close proximity.
Benefits of Ethnic Communities 491 Immigrant neighborhoods offered newcomers familiarity in
a foreign country. They could find newspapers and theaters in their native languages, sotres
selling their native foods, and more. Many immigrants also maintained close ties with their
native countries, and some immigrants helped bring the rest of their families to America.
Americanization 491 Many immigrants came to America with romantic visions of the New World,
Changing Gender Roles 492 Due to the urge for immigrants to assimilate into American life,
many families that once would have their daughters lives decided through arranged marriages
or had mothers that were a lot more subordinate to their husbands would be forced to have the
females in the family also go off and work for money.
Nativism 492 Some Americans thought of the newly immigrated Europeans as “Europe’s human
and inhuman rubbish”, and this idea was also carried to the West coast in prejudice against
Mexican, Chinese, and Japanese immigrants. This is the idea behind Nativism. Such an idea is

[PAGE 143]
also fueled by angry Americans having to take a pay cut to stay competitive in a saturated job
market.
Immigration Restriction League 492 In 1887, Henry Bowers, a lawyer well known for his hatred
against Catholics and foreigners founded the American Protective Association, which, as you
guessed, was committed to stopping immigration to the US. The fact that this group reached a
staggering 500,000 members went to show just how widespread Nativism was.
Later, a group of 5 Hardvard Alumni started the Immigration Restriction League, which was not
as terrifying as Henry Bower, but instead concluded that immigrants should be given a literacy
test to determine whether or not they were to be allowed into the States.
Advantages of Cheap Labor 494 Cheap labor was what led the American economical machine
to keep running during this time period, and the financial incentive drowned out the arguments
made for literacy requirements, leading to President Grover Cleveland to veto the usage of said
literacy requirements.
Fredred Law Olmstead and Calvert Vaux 494 Around the mid 19th century, cities had started to
pop up, and would feature a lot more sophisticated planning from architects and planners and
the like. Frederick Law Olmstead and Calvert Vaux, two landscape designers, were the driving
force behind New York’s Central Park. This turned out to be a huge success, and the 2 were
called up to work on other parks in cities such as Brooklyn, Boston, Philly, Chicago, and DC.
City Beautiful Movement 494 Cities now had a large motivation to attempt to make themselves
look really pretty and more livable, and such was the case in the 1893 Columbian Exposition in
Chicago, dubbing it the “Great White City”. The movement became the inspiration behind the
“city beautiful” movement led by architect Daniel Burnham. This movement inspired other city
remodeling projects in DC and SF.
The Back Bay 495 The Back Bay was an effort in Boston in which the city filled in a marshy tidal
land to create a new neighborhood. This neighborhood was called the “Back Bay”. I don’t know
why this entire section is important at all but whatever I guess.
Growth of SUburbs 495 The land on the edges and outskirts of cities became quite cheap for
the average American middle class person, and as such the American suburbs as we know
them started to grow. In the 1870s, Chicago hosted nearly 100 suburban areas connected to the
city.
Tenements 495 For the average person in the US however, it was pretty unreasonable to even
own their own land. Most people lived in large cities and were exploited by Landlords as
landlords attempted to squeeze as many paying tenants as physically possible in a building.
These buildings became known as “tenements”. To put into perspective just how packed these
buildings were, Manhattan had a population density of 143 people per acre, higher than any

[PAGE 144]
European city of the time. In the most packed areas, the concrete jungle would host nearly 700
people per acre.
Jacob Riis 495 Jacob Riis was a Danish immigrant and New York reporter and photographer,
and would often photograph how the vast majority of Americans lived, bringing awareness to the
rest of the US about how people in New York and other large industrial cities were living. This
however, didn’t solve the problem since reformers just attempted to get rid of the Tenement
buildings while not providing an alternative to the terrible living conditions. Think of it as you
always having a shitty teammate on a team so your solution is to just get rid of him. Sure, you
got rid of the problem, but you did not solve it.
Transportation Problems 496 With that many people in one small area, a large problem in the
US cities became the issue of transportation. Roads became more and more unusable as the
surfaces were trampled into mud. This resulted in the city going into paving overdrive, re-paving
600 of its 2000 miles of streets.
MAss Transit 496 In 1870, New York opened its first elevated railway (gotta save on space yk).
And other large cities such as Chicago and SF (whoa that’s us!) quickly followed suit. In
Richmond, the first electric trolley line was put into function in 1888, with the number growing to
850 lines by 1895 in a multitude of cities in the US.
Development of Professional Fire Departments 498 Due to the very slightly problematic issue of
poorly constructed buildings catching on fire, Many Cities suffered “Great Fires”, where lots of
buildings and people burned. Which was bad, in fact. This led to the creation of Fire
Departments and encouraged people to rebuild their cities with safer, less flammable materials.
WHat did these fire departments do? Tough luck man this book doesn’t say.
Air Pollution 498 The Industrial Revolution led to a lot of decay in the environment. The obvious
problems like fires, disease, and crowding were seen as a result of industrialization. Pollution
was also a major issue due to the improper disposal of waste both human and industrial. At the
time, the common practice was to dump all waste into the rivers, which also happened to be
where EVERYONE GOT THEIR WATER FROM.
Air Quality sucked due to the burning of coal from factories, and furnaces from almost every
building in a city. This led to a massive amount of respiratory problems, which led to calls for
reform.
Public Health Service 498 The Public Health Service was a government established group that
was tasked with finding the causes of and preventing occupational diseases. It attempted to set
health standards, but lacked the power to enforce them. The Public Health Service was an
important albeit small step in the government recognizing the importance of public health and
labor safety.

[PAGE 145]
Salvation Army 499 A Charity organization founded in 1879 dedicated to feeding the homeless
and hungry. THey also helped get people back on their feet. Apparently there were tensions
between Protestants and Catholics over charity too?
High Crime Rates 499 Poverty and crowded cities led to lots of crime. Most of the crime was
relatively minor (stealing, scams, thieving, pinchin, lootin, etc) But there was still a notable
increase in violent crime as well. There were over 100 Murders per million people, which is a lot.
This takes into account the violence in places like the South, where lynching was commonplace.
People tended to blame crime on immigrants, but the crime rates show that there were pretty
equal.
Boss Rule 499 Boss Rule, or Political Machines were an important institution created during the
Gilded Age. Many immigrants needed support adjusting to a new American Urban Lifestyle, and
needed assistance with jobs and finding homes and being alive and having food and stuff.
Politicians turned to “boss rule”, where people would pledge their votes in a certain way in
exchange for relief in the form of food, coal, or potentially even jobs.
Graft and Corruption 500 Political machines also made a lot of money through corrupt means,
such as buying land where proposed developments were going to be made, or getting
kickbacks from contractors and construction companies. This led to Bosses getting RICH AS
HELL (and sent to jail).
Reasons for Boss Rule 500 Boss Rule seems pretty corrupt and stupid, but the reasons for
boss rule make sense. Many Immigrants who held voting power didn’t really care about morality
more than making a living. In addition, Bosses often helped people more than the government,
which made people feel loyal or indebted to bosses. Basically Bosses did stuff the government
wouldn't, leading to people relying on bosses.
Middle Class Culture 500 It was in the late 19th and early 20th centuries that the US middle
class culture and identity really started to cement itself as a part of US culture. The middle class
became extremely influential and was more populated. And while all of this is true, it does not
mention the fact that the vast majority of US citizens lived in utter poverty and were stuck in
large cities with no sign of making it into a better standard of living in sight.
Rising income 500 Due to the increased financial output of the American industrial economy,
companies could afford to raise incomes for workers, albeit at differing rates. The jobs that saw
the largest increase in paychecks were the “white-collar” workers, think clerks, accountants,
middle managers. However, even higher than that were the doctors, lawyers, and eventually
engineers (basically the jobs that our parents work).
New Merchandising Techniques 501 The American market grew and grew, and this was due to
the emergence of once highly skilled workers and hard to learn professions becoming jobs for
factory machines to do. Clothes for example, once had to be custom tailor-made, were now
being easily made by factories and sold cheaply to the world.

[PAGE 146]
Chain Stores 501 Local businesses became in danger of losing to nearby “chain stores” such as
A&P, a large grocery store chain in the US that started after the civil war. There was no reason
to support a local business besides personal connection and loyalty than to just go and look at
the wider variety and cheaper selection of goods that chain stores had.
Social COnsequences oF Mail ORder Catalogs 501 Chain stores failed to open new stores in
the rural and remote areas of the US, but managed to still reach their customers there in the
form of mail-ordering. Montgomery Ward would send a catalog of goods to these areas, offering
thousands of items for cheap prices, and this technique became very popular for other large
retail businesses like Sears and Roebuck.
Impact of the Department Store 501 Department Stores are widely responsible for the act of
shopping becoming a hobby in the US and honestly across the world. The large number of all
sorts of goods particularly in fashion, the salesclerks, and collection of luxury goods allowed the
American consumerism model to thrive.
—-------------------------------------------------------------------------
National Consumers League 502
New conceptions of Leisure 502
Simon Patten 502
Public Leisure 502
Major League Baseball 503
Growth of College Football 503
Gambling and Sports 505
Ethnic Theater 506
Vaudeville 506
The Birth of a Nation (uh oh) 507
Importance of the Saloon 507
Importance of the 4th of July 507
Emergence of Newspaper chains 508

[PAGE 147]
Social Realism 508
Ashcan School 509
“Natural Selection” 509
Pragmatism 510
Growth of Anthropology 510
Spread of Public Education 510
Land Grant Institutions 511
Morrill Land Grant Act, which provided states with land to establish institutions
WOmen’s Colleges 511
—------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Electoral Stability 515 The US split itself quite evenly into Republicans and Democrats at this
time, with 12 states being Republican and 14 being Democratic (southern states). New York and
Ohio remained as swing states, along with 3 other states.
High Turnout 515 Americans started to view themselves more and more as aligning with their
specific political party, and voting numbers soared throughout this era, with 78% of all eligible
voters deciding to vote.
Cultural Basis of Party Identification 516 Specific biases affected political alignment, Catholics,
immigrants, and lower income workers often aligned with the Democratic party, while the
complete opposite, Protestants, conservative middle/upper class citizens would vote for
Republicans. This makes sense however, since people would obviously vote for whoever would
best suit their interests, after all, it makes a lot more sense to make sure your existing voters do
not abandon you than to take a massive risk and try to win everybody over.
Civil War Pension System 516 The Civil War Pension was a system for Civil War Veterans that
fought for the US to be paid after retiring (it’s hard to find work as a veteran). Some attempted to
create a permanent system for this, but failed. As the Civil War generation died, so did the
pension system.
Stalwarts and Half Breeds 516 The Republican party is split into epic groups of people that have
different opinions on how to campaign and politics as a whole, this is so real guys can we get 10
likes???? The Stalwarts led by Roscoe Conkling (bruh his parents hate him) were the more
conservative “if it aint broke dont fix it” group, while the Half Breeds led by James G Blaine were
more radical and argued for reform.

[PAGE 148]
President Hayes would have a lot of headaches over trying to satisfy both groups of
Republicans.
What these people wanted:
Stalwarts - Maintain spoils system, where gov jobs are given to political supports/party loyalists
Half-breeds - Introduce civil service reform, moving towards merit-based hiring
Garfield Assassinated (watch sam o nella) 517 President Garfield gets murked by Charles
Guteau, who is a fucking wackjob. Look him up. Or watch Sam O Nella’s video. This guy is wild.
The funny thing is Garfield would have lived if his doctors actually washed their hands, he died
to infections AFTER the medical procedures.
Pendleton Act 517 Ok so Garfield’s vice president was Chester A Arthur, who was part of a
corrupt Political Machine/Boss Rule (you should know this because you read the vocab, right?)
thing. However, when he becomes president, he realizes he is actually going to have to do his
job properly.
Context Over! The Pendleton Act required that certain Federal Jobs were to be filled by passing
an exam, rather than appointments by those in charge. This Act challenged the Spoils System,
and also made it harder for the government to be corrupted.
Election of 1884 517 James G Blaine was the republican candidate and was often known as the
“Plumed Knight”, While Grover Cleveland was nominated for the democrat party. It’s a pretty
boring election nothing much happens, only thing of note is that religious background allows for
Cleveland to win 219-182, gaining Catholic support.
Sherman Antitrust Act 518 What is an Antitrust? An antitrust is a way for the legislature to
prevent the spread of monopolies and to promote competition in the economy. The Sherman
Antitrust Act was smoothly passed in 1890, but over the decade it was enforced, it failed to
deliver, and antitrust suits were more commonly used against labor unions rather than
businesses that ruled over the US economy as monopolies. It was unclear and many court
rulings found loopholes.
McKinley Tariff 518 The McKinley Tariff was a tariff that put a 50% duty on foreign imports,
basically banning any foreign imports because of the absurdly high cost. Pretty simple here,
McKinley is attempting to increase domestic production and competition.
Interstate Commerce Act 519 Midwestern farmers (Grangers were a big part of this (see term
right below!)) persuaded state legislatures to pass acts that would regulate railroads in the
1870s Why? A lot of railroads in the US were monopolies that were getting out of hand.

[PAGE 149]
The Supreme Court later ruled that the state laws put in place against the railroads were
unconstitutional in the Wabash case,making it clear that railroads would be under regulation of
the federal government from now on.
After this ruling, Congress would succumb to public pressure with the Interstate Commerce Act,
which would basically bring the railroad monopolies down declaring that interstate rail rates had
to be “reasonable and just”.
Grangers (term name is “origins but it makes no sense in this context) 520 The Grange was the
first major farming organization in the 1860s. Started by Oliver H Kelley, Kelley abandoned his
job in the government and founded the Grange Patrons of Husbandry, attempting to bring
farmers together to develop new farming techniques and tech. Membership soared as farm
prices decreased in 1873, and by 1875 had nearly 800,000 members.
Farmers started this because during the 1880s, American farmers were suffering from economic
decline, and knew that the American economy was headed in a direction of industrialization.
Their protest became one of the most influential movements in the US, starting the Populist
party and American Populism as a whole.
Economic Grievances 521 With the Depression of 1873 prices of farms decreased causing an
increase in peoples economic intrest of agriculture. With this change, many of the midwest
lodges shifted their focus from social organization to farms.
Political Program 521 The Grangers worked to elect state legislators that would support their
ideals, sometimes even running their own candidates. In the 1870s, they started by trying to get
laws passed that would regulate railroad practices, and were quite successful in doing so. (look
at interstate commerce act, the rest of this is just a repeat of that)
Mary Lease 521 In 1880, the Grangers lost a large portion of their members, dropping to just
100,000 members. It’s successor was the Farmers Alliance started by Southern farmers, and
had nearly 4 million members by 1880.
A big difference here was the involvement of women. The Farmers Alliance was not afraid of
having women as full voting members or having women hold high positions. Mary Lease for
example, was a very prominent Populist orator, with one of her most famous quotes being to
“raise less corn and more hell.” which goes SO FUCKING HARD.
Birth of the People’s Party 522 Due to the influence of the Farmers Alliance and their growing
sentiment, 1300 delegates met in Omaha to create a new party, the People’s Party, otherwise
known as the Populists under the head of Leonidas L. Polk.
Although young, this party was no joke, and in 1892 their presidential candidate James B.
Weaver got nearly 1 million votes and 22 electoral votes. The party elected 3 governors, 5

[PAGE 150]
senators, and 10 congressmen, while also converting many Republicans and Democrats to their
cause.
Free Silver 523 The Populist party endorsed the idea of free silver, which would make silver a
basis of currency along with gold. This would allow for a cheaper currency to be a standard for
the US and therefore give better financial stability to those who could not afford gold.
Colored Alliances 523 Because of the similar situations of financial poverty that both White
populists and African Americans faced in the US, it became a lot easier for White populists to
accept African Americans as allies, therefore creating “colored alliances”. A majority of populists
were fine with this idea, albeit with the exception that African Americans could not have control
or high positions.
Populist Platform 523 Populists had a multitude of different ideas, one being the “subtreasury”
system in which the government would establish warehouses across the US that would work as
basically a crop bank. Using these warehouses, farmers could borrow money from the
government and sell their crops when prices were good, basically a way for farmers to ensure
maximum profit. Populists also wanted to get rid of national banks, and to improve the ability of
everyday people to influence the political environment of the US.
The rest of the semester guys lets do it.
Update as of 12/18/23 at 10:05 AM we did not do it. :\
God i love ap chemistry
Chem test was light af
NEW SEMESTER WOOOO!!!!! MORE NOTES!!111!! yipee !111!!1!
Period 7 Starts Here Guys.
wow this is literally 200 pages wtf.
Populism’s Ideological Challenge 524 Populists emphatically rejected the Laissez-faire ideas of
their time, including the idea that the rights of ownership are absolute.
Overexpansion and Weak Demand 524 Another main cause of The Panic of 1893. Depressed
prices in agriculture decreased the buying power of the farmers, the largest population group.
Depression conditions in Europe caused a loss of American markets abroad and a withdrawal
by foreign investors of gold. (Woah supply and demand!!! :0)
“Coxey’s Army” 525 In 1894, Jacob S. Coxey, an Ohio business man and Populist began
advocating a massive public works program to create jobs for the unemployed and an inflation

[PAGE 151]
of the currency. When it was clear that his plan wasn’t being considered in congress, Coxey
announced that he would march with a group of people to the capital.
“Crime of ‘73’” 526 WAS THAT THE CRIME OF 73????? In 1873, a law was passed that made
Silver money basically useless. Silver coins dropped to a 16th of their price. This put basically
any silver miner out of business, and the demonetization of silver became the “crime of 73”. This
scandal sent the US into problems when it came to currency for the following couple decades.
Symbolic Importance of The Currency Question 526 Silver becoming so cheap actually posed a
positive side, as it provided cheap currency for the common person to use, and as such, the
differing opinions of gold vs silver began to rise in the US in the form of symbolism. Using gold
was seen as rich and affluent, while silver was the people’s money and wasn’t corrupt like gold.
William McKinley 528 In 1896, William McKinley served as the Republican nominee, current
governor of Ohio. His biggest contribution to the US was the reinstatement of the Gold standard
and making Silver have value again which in turn also made it less unique in the economy since
it was no longer dirt cheap.
Before we move on, you’re gonna hear about the Populist party a lot and to refresh you (either
because you forgot or because we haven’t filled out the term yet lmao). The Populist party was
started by farmers and for farmers, which focuses on the general populace over stuff like
economic growth.
Oh this guy got assassinated by the way. Don’t know how much that matters.
“Cross of Gold” Speech 528 William Jennings Bryan, a 36 year old Nebraskan congressman
argued that silver must be kept cheap as a way for the laboring majority of the US to have a
usable currency, and that by reinstating the gold standard, it would “crucify mankind upon a
cross of gold”. Extremely hard ass quote by the way.
“Fusion” 529 The populist party in the US had to either name their own candidate or choose to
endorse Bryan by joining the Democratic cause. As such, many argued that “fusion” with the
Democratic party would be the best option, but others argued that it would result in the
destruction of the populist party. In the end, the party voted to support Bryan. I have no fucking
clue why this is so important, apparently the populist vote was what made or broke the election
but in the end McKinley won the election anyway.
Birth of Modern Campaigning 529 William Jennings Bryan went fucking balls to the walls this
election, becoming the first presidential candidate to show up everywhere to win the votes of the
people, traveling an estimated 18,000 miles while talking to 5 million Americans. As such, he
became the first person to use truly modern campaigning techniques. Oh Bryan kinda looks like
Saul Goodman by the way. I can imagine him talking with the voice teaching me about money
laundering.

[PAGE 152]
End of the People’s Party 530 Due to the loss of Bryan, the Populist party and their fusion
experiment went to the bin, and so did their party, marking the end of the farmer-led party.
Currency Act 530 Basically McKinley due to Republican support and his own views reinstated
the Gold Standard, therefore making gold the main currency in the US. Although the direct
impact is not shown, after the Gold Standard was reinstated, farmers started making more
money (definitely not due to foreign crop failures or anything). American businesses grew
though, since they benefited a lot off of the more expensive gold currency.
It’s called the Gold Standard Act of 1900 fyi
READING QUIZ#1 INFO ENDS HERE
READING QUIZ#2 INFO STARTS HERE
Increasing Importance of Trade 532 Foreign Trade became increasingly important to America in
the late 1800s, with the government relying on exports for a lot of its income. Many Americans
began to consider getting colonies in order to increase the area of trade influence. Americans
were also more informed about Europe’s imperialism thing, and they want to try it out too.
Intellectual Justification for Imperialism 533 In John W Burgess’ paper Political Science and
Comparative Law , he basically states that White people have the best governments, and
therefore are obligated to “support and uplift” more “savage” nations and force their superior
ways of life onto them (HMMMMMMMMMM).
Alfred Thayer Mahan 533 A captain and admiral of the Navy that believed that the US would
have a powerful navy and be able to control a worldwide economy. He also advocated for the
colonization of many islands to serve as naval bases and to help defend trade routes. He
constantly pushed for a stronger navy. You know how Kingpin loves the Mets? He loves the
Navy go Navy hit a home run Navy!!!
Venezuelan Dispute 534 Venezuela had a dispute in 1895 with England. The British ignored
Americans telling them to submit to arbitration, so America threatened war under grounds of the
Monroe Doctrine. The British backed down, as they didn’t want to go to war.
Self Sufficient Societies 535 Many Polynesian and Pacific Island communities were completely
self-sufficient (hence why there are people living there??? The book is stupid??? Is there a lore
reason??) and I guess they were separated from each other as well, with many conflicts
occurring as people tried to condense power.

[PAGE 153]
With the arrival of European traders and Missionaries, Disease was spread, and Americans
began to colonize and take control of the islands(all of them). Yup. Americans also tried to
destroy the native cultures in order to farm sugar. I love sugar. Sugar is great. The book talks
about Hawaii specifically, and Hawaiians were not very happy with American Colonization.
Queen Liliuokalani 535 Native Hawaiians did not accept their subordination without protest.
Queen Liliuokalani, a powerful nationalist, was promoted to the throne and began to challenge
the growing American control of the islands.
However, she only remained in power for two years, and by 1890 the US had eliminated the
privileged position of Hawaiian sugar in international trade. This, as expected, caused
Hawaian’s economy to plummet faster than the stock market in the Great Recession, and the
American farmers (not government) came to the “conclusion” that the only way to “save”
Hawaii’s economy was to become part of the US
Of course, the Hawaians rebelled, and after receiving aid from the US government, the Queen
gave up her authority.
Acquisition of Samoa 537 Basically the US, Britain, and Germany were fighting over the Samoa
islands, and the three fought for power in the islands, eventually settling on an arrangement to
“share” the power of the islands.
Yeah, this fucking failed, and Britain was offered teritories elsewhere in the Pacific, and the US
and Germany split the islands.
Yellow Journalism/Press/Media (not mentioned but i’ll put it here)
Since printing is pretty cheap now, there are a lot of magazines doing a little trolling and
spreading misinformation. THis is pretty important because it leads to a lot of clickbait over who
is to blame for a certain battleship that explodes and starts a war…
Cuban Revolt 538 The Cubans rebelled again in 1895, this time producing a ferocity from both
sides that shocked many Americans. The Cubans deliberately devastated the island (self
destruction) to force the Spaniards to leave, and the Spanish responded by confining civilians in
some areas to poorly prepared concentration camps, where Cubans died by the thousands to
disease and malnutrition.
The Maine 539 A letter written by Spanish minister Dupuy de Lôme was stolen and turned to the
American public, and excitement about Cuba rose even higher. During this, the American
battleship Maine blew up in Havana harbor with an estimated death toll of 260. The ship was
there to protect American lives and property, and many people assumed that the Spanish had
sunk it.

[PAGE 154]
Hindsight is 20/20, the Spanish in fact did not blow up the ship and it was a malfunction, but it
served as a catalyst to the massive war hysteria that followed.
Supply and Mobilization Problems 539 Soldiers faced serious supply problems. There was a
shortage of modern rifles and ammo, uniforms that were too heavy for the Caribbean climate,
terrible medical services, and the average school lunch in American public schools for rations.
Most of the army had no real experience in dealing with large-scale warfare, and the US had to
rely heavily on National Guard units organized by local communities for their soldiers.
Also racism was a thing 😀👍Black soldiers were still mistreated, and had many conflicts with
their white superiors. Seeing black Cuban soldiers fighting alongside whites as equals gave
African Americans a stronger sense of the injustice of their own position.
The Rough Riders 542 A group under General Leonard Wood in name, it was actually led by
Colonel Theodore Roosevelt (I wonder who this Roosevelt guy is, I’ve never heard of him!) who
resigned from the Navy Department to get into the war and fought to ensure his regiment made
it to the front before the fighting ended. His passion to join the war was heavily influenced by his
father’s decision to not join the Civil War, and Roosevelt Jr. sought to erase the family shame
this way.
The Rough Riders took Kettle Hill during the Battle of San Juan with the help of Black soldiers
from the 9th and 10th division, which was a vital turning point for the battle.
Annexation of Puerto Rico 543 The annexation of Puerto Rico produced relatively little
controversy in the United States. The island had been a part of the Spanish Empire since 1508.
Stuff unrelated to the Annexation of Puerto Rico…
Yeah, nothing much on the Annexation of Puerto Rico. It does talk about when control of the
island shifted over to the United States, the Americans were able to amend or veto any
legislation that the Puerto Ricans passed. This wasn’t taken lightly, and soon the US passed the
Jones Act which declared Puerto Rico to be United States territory.
Sugar Economy 543 The Puerto Rican sugar industry was massive, taking advantage of the
many many many many Americans that wanted to buy sugar without tariffs and stuff. Americans
began establishing large sugar plantations and hired people (often from other places) to work on
Puerto Rico.
However, since sugar was pretty much the only source of economic stability, when sugar prices
dropped, the economy of Puerto Rico would implode, and since everyone was farming sugar
there were also food problems. yay.
The Philippines Question 544 There wasn’t even a question…………….

[PAGE 155]
Anyway, terribly phrased things aside, this was when McKinley was debating on what to do with
the Philippines islands. He said that “divine guidance” helped him come to the decision to annex
the islands.
He said that giving the islands back to Spain would be cowardly and dishonorable, and turning
them over to another imperialist power would be bad business and the Filipinos were unfit for
self government.
So the whole point of this man’s monologue was that American had to educate, uplift, and
Christianize the Filipinos. (They were already Christian so like wtf was McKinley smoking??)
Anti-Imperialist League 544 There was fierce resistance to The Treaty of Paris pt 69420(Spain
giving up control to Cuba, Puerto Rico, Guam, and the Philippines.) in the Senate. During
debate over the ratification of the treaty, a powerful anti-imperialist movement arose around the
country to oppose acquisition of the Philippines. The anti-imperialists included some of the
nation’s wealthiest and most powerful figures: Andrew Carnegie, Mark Twain, Samuel Gopers,
Senator John Sherman, and others.
Election of 1900 545 Ok so our cunning friend William Jennings Bryan, a fervent anti-imperialist,
wanted imperialism to be the subject of a national referendum in 1900, where he was the
Democratic presidential candidate. Bryan managed to convince other anti-imperialist Democrats
to go along with the scheme.
But, the plan backfired on Bryan harder than the joke I was trying to make (I couldn’t find
anything good to compare it to). Basically, not only did Bryan not win the election, he took an
even bigger L than before.
Talk about good plans!
Platt Amendment 545 The US was pissed that Cuba didn’t mention the US in its constitution,
and then the US passed this thing.
The Platt Amendment barred Cuba from making treaties with other nations(Basically gave US
control of its foreign policies); it gave the US the right to intervene in Cuba to “preserve
independence, life, and property”; and it also required Cuba to permit American naval stations
on its territory.
Yeah, go imperialism!!!
American Economic Dominance 545 American investments quickly took over the island’s
economy. Said investments made the new nation an American economic appendage, and
Americans poured into Cuba to buy plantations, factories, and all that jazz.

[PAGE 156]
The Cubans, of course, hated this, and rebelled many times, eventually getting the American
military involved. Much like other territories the United States got access to, Cuba became a
sugar making machine, and suffered the same fates as Puerto Rico and Hawaii.
Emilio Aguinaldo 546 The leader of the Filipinos as they rebelled against the Americans due to
wanting independence rather than just another form of colonization . He claimed to head the
legitimate government of the nation, Filipinos relentlessly fought against the American army of
occupation from island to island for more than three years.
At first, American commanders believed that the rebels only had a small following, but by early
1900, General Arthur MacAruther wrote “I have been reluctantly compelled to believe that the
Filipino masses are loyal to Aguinaldo and the government which he heads”
Growing Economic Dependence 546 The US beat the rebellion, and in 1901, authority over the
islands was transferred to William Howard Taft, who was their first civilian governor.
Taft gave the Filipinos broad local autonomy, and built lots of infrastructure for the Philippines.
The Philippine economy(surprise!) became increasingly dependent on the US markets, as the
two countries frequently engaged in the practice of trading.
Hay’s “Open Door Notes” 548 The Open Door notes was basically the US creating foreign policy
for China. John Hay(Secretary of State at the time) asked all the European Countries with
SPHERES OF INFLUENCE (AP WORLD TERM IF YOU DON’T KNOW THIS GET REKT AP
WORLD GANG ON TOP 💪 ) to not tax each other and respect the rights of other nations. It
also said that China could collect taxes in all spheres. This allowed the US to trade freely and
maintain at least the facade that China is still independent.
What’s funny is that pretty much everyone the Open Door notes were meant for said “uhhh we’ll
do it if everyone else does it”, so Hays told everyone that “ok yeah everyone else agreed now
follow these rules”.
Boxer Rebellion (AP World reference?!???) 548 A Nationalist Chinese movement that was
focused on anti-foreigner sentiment. The Boxer Rebellion was spread widely across China,
attacking Europeans (and Christian Chinese) on sight pretty much. The Rebellion climaxed in a
siege of the Western foreign diplomatic corps, so all the European Countries got together to
jump the Boxers. The result was that The Open Door Notes got more approval and China had to
give even more concessions to the Europeans.
This uprising was called the “boxer” rebellion because historically the rebels used nothing but
melee weapons and kung fu, hence the name “boxer”.
Root’s Military Reforms 548 The Spanish American War made Americans realize that their army
system was too inefficient, and an overall lack of training and coordination made people realize
a real war might have been catastrophic. This leads to Elihu Root being appointed to manage a

[PAGE 157]
complete overhaul of the Army. Root enlarged the Regular army and established regular
standards for the National Guard. Root also led to the founding of many military colleges and
schools, It also created a central planning agency (The Joint Chiefs) to supervise and
coordinate entire wars and plan ahead for possible conflicts,
READING QUIZ#2 INFO ENDS HERE
Belief in Progress VIKTOR ARCANE?????????? 552 Progressivism is the belief in the idea of
social, political, and economic progress for all. Progressives believed that purposeful
intervention in social and economic affairs would lead to a better and more orderly society (she
belief in my progress till i societal advancement)
READING QUIZ#3 INFO STARTS HERE
“Antimonopoly” 552 Many Progressives were not happy with the Corporations that held
monopolies on America’s resources and infrastructure. The Fear of concentrated power led
many to challenge monopolies. The idea of Anti Monopoly was very popular to the Middle Class
and Farmers of America, and it led to the government passing antitrust laws for the very first
time.
Faith in Knowledge 552 Another progressive idea was the idea that natural and social sciences
could be applied to society. Many progressives believed that Education was more important
than anything when it came to creating a better society for all.
Many also believed that the government had to be modernized (completely different idea but its
mentioned here so…)
Ida Tarbell and Lincoln Steffens 553 Two really prominent muckrakers ( r eform minded
journalists, photographers and writers ) , Ida Tarbell enormous study of Standard Oil trust (firstly
published in magazines and then as a two volume book in 1904). Lincoln Steffens was a
reporter for McClure’s magazine and then author of a famous book based on his articles, The
Shame of the Cities ( 1904). His works sparked the sentiment for urban political reform.
Father John Ryan 553 A man who very much just followed the leader (the pope). He heeded the
pope’s warning that “a small number of very rich men have been able to lay upon the masses of
the poor a yoke little better than slavery itself”(I had an aneurysm reading that) and he worked
to expand the scope of Catholic social welfare organizations for decades.

[PAGE 158]
The quote above is just saying this: “A tiny group of extremely wealthy men have gained so
much power over the poor that their lives are controlled and burdened in a way that’s almost like
slavery.”
Jane Addams and Hull House 553 The most famous of these settlement houses was Hull
House, which opened in Chicago as a result of social worker Jane Addams. It became a model
for more than 400 similar institutions throughout the nation. These houses sought to help
immigrant families adapt to the language and customs of their new country.
These houses avoided the condescension and moral disapproval of earlier philanthropic efforts,
and embraced a belief that middle-class Americans had a responsibility to help others and teach
them how to create middle-class lifestyles.
Jane Addams started Hull House, a settlement house that helped poor immigrants adjust to
American life by providing education, childcare and social services. Became a model for
hundreds for 400 similar reform centers.
How did they differ from traditional charities? - Older charity groups often acted as though
“you’re poor cuz u made bad choices” but Hull House believed that poor immigrants just needed
support, that middle class people had a responsibility to help and help families to build stable
middle class lives.
American Medical Association 555 The AMA (but not of the reddit variety) was a national
professional society that called for stricter and more scientific standards for people to become
doctors. State governments responded by requiring all doctors to receive a license from the
state. In addition to all this, the AMA led to the more proper education of those in the medical
field, with Medical schools (Like John Hopkinds in Baltimore) being compared favorably to the
top schools in Europe.
National Association of Manufacturers 555 There were similar movements to the AMA in other
professions as well, such as Lawyer, Business, and Manufacturing Associations. The National
Association of Manufacturers is probably important, but the textbook uses this part to only talk
about other associations like the national Farm Bureau Federation and the US Chamber of
Commerce.
The important thing about all these associations is that they increased the standards of working
in these professions. No longer can untrained and incompetent people really associate with the
professionals and educated when it comes to trained professions.
However these Admission Requirements to these associations were also used for racist,
xenophobic, and sexist reasons, or even just to create a smaller supply for a higher demand for
skilled workers.
Female Dominated Professions Settlement houses, domestic work, and teaching became
professions that would have a majority of women. For educated black women, the existence of
segregated schools created a demand for African American Teachers. Nursing also became a

[PAGE 159]
women’s field during the 20th Century, developing professional standards and receiving
degrees.
Key Role of Women in Reform Causes 556 Despite lacking the right to vote, many women
would be important in reform movements. Uh that’s it. Literally.
Socioeconomic Origins of the New Woman 556 The “New Women” was a product of social and
economic developments for the rights of women. As women were working less in factories, and
staying at home more, developments like running water and electricity would make women
more active mothers at home. (uh book?) In addition, some educated women shunned
marriage.
“Boston Marriages” 557 Women that lived with each other in long-term relationships, with some
relationships being romantic (lesbians, but the book doesn’t say it directly) (i think roommates is
the historical term)
LONG BACON STORE REFERENCE!!
GFWC 558 The General Federation of Women’s Clubs coordinated many local organizations for
social causes. Many Club members were RICH, so these clubs ended up having decent
amounts of influence.
A Public Space for Women 558 The Women’s clubs served as places for Women to meet and
socialize without openly challenging the existing male-dominated society. Many clubs ended up
not really being focused on social reform, and more on uncontroversial things like supporting
schools and building hospitals and the like.
Women’s Trade Union League 559 Founded in 1903 by female union members and upper-class
reformers (No names??), it was committed to persuading women to join unions. The WTUL also
held public meetings on behalf of female workers, raised money to support strikes, marched on
picket lines, and bailed striking women out of jail.
Radical Challenge of Women’s Suffrage 559 Back then, suffrage seemed to many of its critics a
very radical demand, and that rationale was used by some early supporters to advance it.
Throughout the late 19th century, many suffrage advocates presented their views in terms of
“natural rights,” arguing that women deserved the same rights as men, including the right to
vote.
Opponents said that suffrage was a threat to the “natural order” of civilization. Antisuffragists,
many of whom were women, associated suffrage with divorce(many suffrage advocates also
supported making it easier for women to obtain a divorce), with promiscuity, immorality, and
neglect of children.
NAWSA 559 Led by Anna Howard Shaw and Carrie Chapman Catt, membership in the National
American Woman Suffrage Association grew from 13,000 to over 2 million in 24 years. The

[PAGE 160]
movement gained strength because many of its most prominent leaders began to justify
suffrage in “safer,” less threatening ways.
Conservative Arguments for Suffrage 560 Some of the reasons for Women’s suffrage were not
too nice. For example, many people in the Middle Class believed that African Americans and
Immigrants could vote, then white women should have the right to vote too (so basically racism).
Nineteenth Amendment 560 In 1920, the 19th Amendment gave women the right to vote. Some
feminists didn’t accept the justification for the 19th Amendment and wanted a more explicit
constitutional amendment, but many thought this was too radical. This amendment also did not
give ALL American women the right to vote. mainly just white women. African American, Asian,
and Indigenous women still had to fight for their rights to vote.(mainly just Black women tho
since they were the largest population of the 3)
Reforming Government 560 These progressive reforms that were carried out by the American
people were all missing one thing though: government intervention. It was impossible for these
reforms to happen at a national level without said intervention, and it quickly became the goal of
these movements to get the government to provide support in the form of new laws and
regulation.
Middle-Class Progressives 561 New generations of middle class citizens were nothing like their
parents when it came to their ideas on activism. While their pops and ma believed their time
was better put someplace else than something as “vulgar” as working-class politics, the kids
were very comfortable with speaking out against the government and joining in on the activist
movements.
Commission Plan 561 One of the first major successes came in Galveston, Texas, where the
old city government proved unable to deal with the effects of a destructive tidal wave in 1900.
Capitalizing on public dismay, reformers, many of them local businessmen, won approval of a
new city charter. The mayor and council were replaced by an elected, nonpartisan commission.
Other cities soon followed.
City-Manager Plan 561 Besides the Commission Plan, the City-Manager Plan was another plan
used in American cities to replace the charter and mayor system. The City Manager Plan would
have a City Council decide on an outside influence and city planner to help run the city,
therefore an unbiased source to help manage the city.
Tom Johnson Some major reform leaders worked inside regular political systems after
progressives gained influence. Tom Johnson, a famous reform mayor from Cleveland fought
powerful streetcar companies to lower their fares to 3 cents and pushed for the city to own
important public utilities. After he died and lost power, his aide Newton D.Baker became mayor
and helped Cleveland earn a reputation as one of the best cities in the country. Other reform
mayors like Hazen Pingree of Detroit and Samuel “Golden Rule” Jones of Toledo also fought
corrupt party bosses and brought reform ideas into city govs.

[PAGE 161]
Initiative & Referendum Two major reforms first suggested by Populists in the 1890s were
Initiative and the Referendum.
No.1 - Initiative -> let citizens propose new laws and vote on them directly rather than going
through state lawmakers.
No.2 - Referendum -> Allowed voters to approve or reject laws that state legislatures have
already passed.
Direct Primary and Recall Reforms like direct primaries and the recall were meant to weaken
political party bosses and give more power to regular voters.
The primary election let voters choose candidates instead of party leaders choosing them
behind the scenes. In the South some white leaders supported primaries cuz they thought it
would be easier to limit black voters compared to normal elections.
On the other hand, the recall allowed voters to remove an elected official from office by holding
a special election as long as enough people signed a petition.
Robert La Follette One of the most famous reform leaders at the state level. Elected governor in
1900, he helped make Wisconsin a model for progressive reform. He brought in direct
primaries, initiatives and referendums, giving people more power in gov decisions. He regulated
railroads and public utilities, passed workplace safety laws and created compensation for
worker injuries. Taxes were increased on large inherited fortunes and taxes on railroad and big
corporations doubled. He was a strong leader who helped people understand progressiveness
and believed reform should involve the people, media, schools, organizations and politicians.
THIS GUY IS FIGHTING B.O.B (nickname)
Decline of Party Influence Progressive reforms weakened political parties, leading to less voter
turnout rate. In the late 1800s, strong party loyalty meant about 81% of voters participated in
elections. By 1900, that number dropped to 73% and by 1912 it fell to 59% never reaching 70%
ever again.
Why did this happen? - Secret ballots (where voters vote privately without anyone knowing their
choice) made it harder for party bosses to control voters, especially illiterate ones. But it was
mainly due to the rise of “interest groups” like labor unions, business associations, women’s
clubs and social reform groups which had gained influence outside of the party system.
Triangle Shirtwaist Fire In 1911, the Triangle Shirtwaist Factory fire in NYC killed 146 workers,
mostly women that were trapped by locked exits. A state commission studied the workplace
conditions and called for reforms. By 1914, lawmakers like Robert F.Wagner and Alfred E.Smith
passed strong labor laws regulating factories and enforcing safety rules that responded to public
pressure from unions & women’s groups.

[PAGE 162]
W.E.B. Du Bois Born free in Massachusetts and educated at Harvard and Fisk, W.E.B. Du Bois
opposed Booker T. Washington’s approach. In his book The Souls of Black Folk , he criticized
Washington’s desire for limiting black ambitions and accepting segregation. Du Bois argued that
true progress required full political and civil rights.
NAACP Founded Du Bois believed that African Americans should get university education and
be able to get professional careers and fight for civil rights. So in 1905 the guy started the
Niagara Movement and in 1909 it merged with white allies to form the NAACP with him as
leader. It fought for equality in court cases. Du Bois also campaigned against lynching, with the
assistance of Ida Wells Barnett & Jessie Daniel Ames.
WCTU Inspired by the temperance movement before the Civil War, the Women's Christian
Temperance Union was an organization led by Frances Willard that grew to 245k members by
1911. Along with the Anti-Saloon League, they pushed for laws banning saloons as well as the
prohibition of alcohol.
Eighteenth Amendment Support for prohibition grew despite opposition from immigrants and
workers. By 1916, 19 states had banned alcohol. WW1 and moral support from rural
fundamentalists helped pass a national ban. In 1919, the 18th Amendment was ratified, starting
national prohibition in 1920.
Eugenics and Nativism In the early 1900s, many Americans wanted limited immigration. Some
used eugenics, claiming certain races were “better” and that immigrants would spread
undesirable traits. Eugenicists ranked races and pushed forced sterilization for the “unfit,” like
criminals or people with disabilities. People like Madison Grant warned that immigrants from
Eastern Europe, Latin America, and Asia threatened the “purity” of white Americans.
Even people who didn't care about race supported the limits to reduce overcrowding and
unemployment in urban areas. Theodore Roosevelt liked this despite opposition from employers
and immigrant groups. By WW1, nativism grew stronger.
Eugene Debs From 1900-14, socialism gained support in the US more than almost any other
time. The Socialist party grew from <100k voters in 1900 to 1 mil for Eugene V. Debs (their
leader) in 1912. German and Jewish immigrants and some farmers in the south/midwest
supported the socialist party. Socialists won over 1k local & state offices, supported by thinkers
like Lincoln Steffens & Walter Lippmann. Women reformers like Florence Kelley & Frances
Willard liked socialism for its support of peace and workers’ rights.
Wobblies All socialists wanted big changes to the economy, but they disagreed on how much
change was needed and how to achieve it. Some wanted radical European-style Marxism while
others wanted smaller reforms, keeping some private businesses. Some tried to make change
through voting, while others supported strikes and protests.

[PAGE 163]
The IWW (Industrial Workers of the World, their nickname was the Wobblies), led by Big Bill
Haywood, was a radical union that wanted all workers in one union. They also wanted to end
unfair wages. They used strikes instead of politics and were sometimes linked to bombings.
They helped unskilled workers in the west like miners and timber workers. After a big timber
strike in 1917, the gov arrested the leaders and passed laws against them. The union survived
but never became strong again.
Socialism's Demise Most socialists were moderate and wanted slow, peaceful change through
politics. They tried to teach people why change was needed and work within the system. But
WW1 hurt them a lot cuz they didn’t support the war, and the gov and public began attacking
and harassing them.
The Problem of Corporate Centralization Louis Brandeis and his supporters didn’t like big
businesses cuz they were inefficient & unfair. They believed big businesses hurt people’s
freedom, gave too much power to too little people and caused abuse. He said the gov should
make rules to keep big companies from getting too strong.
“Good Trusts” and “Bad Trusts” Some progressives didn’t worry about big businesses as much
as Brandeis did. They cared more about efficiency and thought big companies could be helpful
if controlled. According to them, the gov’s job was to stop abuses and support “good trusts” and
punish “bad trusts”. Since big businesses weren’t going away, the gov needed to keep an eye
on them. Leaders like Herbert Croly and Walter Lippmann wanted better coordination in the
economy, either by businesses working together or by the gov regulating more. Theodore
Roosevelt later supported the idea, saying the gov should supervise and control big companies.
He became a major symbol for national reform.
Roosevelt’s Background Roosevelt kinda created himself a reputation of being a “wild man” cuz
of his energy and bold actions. In NY, he was an energetic lawmaker, in the Dakotas, he hunted
outlaws, as police commissioner, he fought crimes, as assistant secretary of the navy, he
supported US expansion and as a rough rider, he led his famous charge into Kettle Hill, Cuba.
Roosevelt’s Vision of Federal Power Roosevelt worked with progressives who wanted to control,
but not destroy, big businesses. His main goal was to give the government power to investigate
companies and share what they found with the public. The Department of Commerce and
Labor, created in 1903, helped with this through the Bureau of Corporations.
Northern Securities Company Roosevelt wasn’t really against big businesses, but he did take on
a few major trusts to show that the gov could actually do stuff. So in 1902, he used the Sherman
Antitrust Act to break up the Northern Securities Company, a huge railroad monopoly made by
JP Morgan. The Supreme Court agreed in 1904. Roosevelt then filed over 40+ antitrust cases
but didn’t try to stop big businesses from growing overall.
Roosevelt also treated labor disputes more fairly than previous presidents. In a 1902 coal strike,
he pushed both the miners and owners to accept federal arbitration (no clue wtf that is). When

[PAGE 164]
the owner refused, he threatened to seize the mines and the strike ended with higher wages
and shorter hours for the workers, though not with full union recognition. Roosevelt also
sometimes used troops to support employers in other strikes.
Hepburn Act 574 You remember the Interstate Commerce Act? The one that would regulate
railroads in the US? While it was in full effect, the full effect was barely noticeable and the
Railroad industry in the US still proved to be one of the most corrupt and monopoly-driven
businesses in the US. The Hepburn Act instituted early on by Teddy Roosevelt due to popular
demand from the public would strongly increase the power of the Interstate Commerce Act,
allowing for the Act which had already been in power for a while to actually do something.
Pure Food And Drug Act 574 Roosevelt also got the Pure Food and Drug Act enacted, which
would restrict the sale of dangerous medicines. Upton Sinclair’s The Jungle was one of the
largest catalysts for this, which described the horrible conditions of the meatpacking industry
(remember thumbs in sausages?).
Unrelated note: Roosevelt was an early supporter of better working conditions, arguing for an 8
hour workday, compensations for work-related injuries, and stock market regulation
Federal Aid To The West 575 Teddy Roosevelt was a supporter in the American conservation
movement, a movement which would preserve the US and it’s natural habitats. In order to aid
them, Roosevelt backed the Newlands Act, which would provide funding for the construction of
infrastructure, MOST IMPORTANTLY: irrigation projects in the undeveloped West. Nowadays,
we might think of construction as a means of destroying natural habitats if anything, but it
worked back then because by allowing control of the water, more water would be pumped into
the natural habitats of the US.
Competing Conservationist Visions 576 For over a decade, an argument raged between
naturalists and advocates of Hetch Hetchy Dam(Woah this sounds familiar!!). This battle
consumed the energies of our beloved John Muir, and many believe that it led to his death.
The dam was placed on the ballot in 1908, and San Franciscans approved it by a huge margin.
Tennessee Coal And Iron Company 576 got a fuckin long ass grind baby lets get to it
Don’t worry much about the actual term above: the real issue here is that despite Roosevelt’s
pretty progressive and positive changes, the US was still in quite the recession. Banks were
doing terrible and it was clear that there was action that needed to be taken. To combat this, JP
Morgan quickly threw up a bunch of crappy New York banks that work as temporary cover for
the recession. In order to get that money though, JP Morgan (more specifically his company, US
Steel) bought up shares of Tennessee Coal and Iron Company. In order for this acquisition to
happen however, Morgan needed permission and most importantly assurance that an antitrust
action would not happen.

[PAGE 165]
TLDR:
America–big recession. JP Morgan takes action. How? Morgan buys Tennessee Coal and Iron
Company. With money from acquisition Morgan sets up banks. Morgan needs assurance that
the government wouldn’t kill him with antitrust laws. Roosevelt makes sure Morgan doesn’t get
killed with antitrust laws.
—-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
William Howard Taft 577 The president starting in 1909, Taft was Roosevelt’s most trusted
lieutenant and handpicked successor. Progressive reformers believed him to be one of them,
but Taft was also a restrained and moderate man, who had a meticulous regard for legal
processes.
He had great expectations placed on him, and completely failed to meet them. He came out of
the office as the most defeated president of his century, and left his party divided and the
government in the hands of a Democratic administration for the first time in 20 years.
Payne-Aldrich Tariff 577 President Taft called Congress to argue for the lowering of tariffs, which
would appease progressives in the nation. However, Taft basically chickened out when
Congress disagreed with the idea and as such a shitty Payne Aldrich Tariff was implemented
which would only reduce tariffs by a measly amount. Understandably, people got mad by how
passive this guy was playing.
Ballinger-Pinchot Dispute 577 Who is Ballinger? Richard Ballinger is a conservative lawyer who
replaced James Garfield, a conservationist who was put in the position of Secretary of the
Interior by Teddy Roosevelt. The replacement was made by President Taft.
- Ballinger tried to sell Alaskan land to a private entity, which got progressives
understandably angry.
- Louis Glavis and Gifford Pinchot brought the case to Congress
- Taft and congress backed Ballinger in the case
- Louis Glavis and Gifford Pinchot got fired
- Ballinger got out of the case unharmed somehow
- Taft is now the most hated US president
By the way Ballinger tried (unsuccessfully) to remove the protection of 1 million acres of land for
private enterprise before doing this.
“New Nationalism” 578 A new set of principles coined by Theodore Roosevelt. It made clear that
he moved away from the cautious conservatism of the first years of his presidency. He argued
that social justice was possible only through the vigorous efforts of a strong federal government.
He supported graduated income and inheritance taxes, workers’ compensation for industrial
accidents, regulation of the labor of women and children, tariff revision, and firmer regulation of
corporations.
The Progressive Party 579 Since the utter failure of Taft’s presidency left many progressives
longing for an actually good president, Teddy Roosevelt came back, but unfortunately the

[PAGE 166]
election process still turned out to be pretty hard due to Taft’s Republican support. Roosevelt
then called his supporters to Chicago for a convention, launching the Progressive Party and
having him be the presidential candidate. Unfortunately for Roosevelt however, the Democratic
party’s candidate Woodrow Wilson was too popular for him to beat.
Wilson’s “New Freedom” 579 Woodrow Wilson rose to political prominence in an unorthodox
way. He was a professor of political science at Princeton until 1902, when he was named
president of the university. He was then elected governor of New Jersey in 1910, where he
demonstrated a commitment to reform. As a presidential candidate in 1912, Wilson presented a
new progressive program called the “New Freedom.” (It was basically the opposite of
Roosevelt’s New Nationalism when it came to government size)
Lowering The Tariff 579 Wilson managed to ease both Democratic and Progressives, lowering
the protective tariff. However to make up for the loss of revenue from the tariff, congress
imposed an income tax of 1 percent for Americans earning more than 4k annually, increasing
depending on your income.
Federal Reserve Act 579 The Federal Reserve Act was passed by Congress in 1913, and
would institute 12 regional banks, and would issue a paper currency. Most importantly, Federal
Reserve notes were backed by the government and therefore served as a stable currency. This
system was highly successful, and solved a big problem with banking in the US that Taft and
Roosevelt had tried to solve years prior.
Child-Labor Laws 581 Wilson supported the Keating-Owen Act, a federal law which would
regulate child labor, prohibiting children from crossing state lines. This Act was not supported by
the Court. Another attempt was a law which would put a big tax on child labor, which too was
dismissed by the Court.
—----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Racial and Economic Basis of Roosevelt’s Diplomacy 584 Roosevelt was a fan of the differing
“civilized and uncivilized” nations. (basically anybody that was white and not Slavic was
“civilized” while anybody that wasn’t was “uncivilized”) Therefore, Roosevelt’s foreign policy was
that he would go and intervene in the “backwards” affairs in “uncivilized” nations, and leave the
“civilized” nations alone. Just sounds like modern American foreign policy to me.
“Great White Fleet” 585 While Roosevelt won the Nobel Peace Prize for his help in ending the
Russo-Japanese War, relations between the US and Japan steadily deteriorated. Japan was not
the preeminent naval power in the Pacific and soon began to exclude American trade from
many of the territories it controlled.
To show Japan the power of the US, Roosevelt sent 16 battleships of the new American navy
(the Great WHite Fleet) on a journey around the world that included a call on Japan.
“Roosevelt Corollary” 585 Why does the textbook decide to wheel back to Roosevelt? Who
knows. You remember the Monroe Doctrine? If you do, look at it again. When Venezuela started

[PAGE 167]
to stop paying debt to Germany, Germany blockaded its ports. Roosevelt then immediately
threatened Germany, forcing their navy to piss off. This was because Roosevelt believed that
the American continent was to be controlled by the US, and having Germany show prowess in
the region was therefore ruining said control, going back to the Monroe Doctrine, Roosevelt
basically made a new version of it, this time in the name “Roosevelt Corollary”. Roosevelt used
his Corollary to gain control of the Dominican Republic, and then replaced it’s corrupt
government with another corrupt government, the US.
Platt Amendment 586 In 1902, the US granted political independence to Cuba, but only after the
new government agreed to the Platt Amendment to its constitution.
The Platt Amendment barred Cuba from making treaties with other nations(Basically gave US
control of its foreign policies); it gave the US the right to intervene in Cuba to “preserve
independence, life, and property”; and it also required Cuba to permit American naval stations
on its territory.
Panamanian Revolt 587 Roosevelt was pissed that the Colombian senate refused to ratify an
agreement that gave the US perpetual rights to a canal zone across Colombia. (Keep in mind
that the Americans pressured the previous Colombian representative to agree to this). So
Roosevelt began to look for ways to bypass the Colombian government, and he found an ally in
the chief engineer of the French canal project, Philippe Bunau-Varilla.
In November 1903, a revolution began. Unlike the others that preceded this revolution, the US
backed this one, and American soldiers prevented Colombian forces from suppressing the
rebellion and, three days later, Roosevelt recognized Panama as an independent nation.
Intervention In Nicaragua 587 Quick note: Philander C Knox was a dude that worked to “Extend
American investments into less developed regions” (that’s what the textbook says, pretty sure
it’s just trying to put something else into nicer words but you take that however you wanna).
During Taft’s presidency, a revolution broke out in Nicaragua, and the US sided with the rebels,
who received American military aid. Knox then encouraged US banks to offer loans to the new
Nicaraguan government (this basically means that with the loans, the US could be in control of
Nicaragua banks). Nicaraguans then rebelled against, this time against the pro-American
government, and Taft then landed troops in the country again, this time to support the
government and to put down the people. Classic American foreign policy.
Wilson’s Moral Diplomacy 588 During Wilson’s presidency, Mexico was going through…a time
period of leaders. All you gotta know here is that Victoriano Huerta is the one to end up on top,
and Wilson doesn’t like that. With the help of American businesses, Huerta becomes a full on
military dictator, and now Wilson is getting a little angrier. He orders Huerta to fire a 21 gun
salute to the US flag, and Mexico understandably refuses. Wilson then sends troops to the
Mexican port of Veracruz. (cont on Veracruz)

[PAGE 168]
Veracruz 588 With the intention of a 0 violence seizing of the port, Wilson is shocked when his
own troops kill 126 Mexican soldiers, and is now on the brink of war. Another thing this causes
is the rise of power of some guy named Carranza, I don’t know why this shit is really confusing .
Now what you gotta know is that Carranza is in power, not Huerta. Wilson didn’t want to directly
intervene, instead opting for backing Pancho Villa, who was leading a rebel army against the
Carranza government. Wilson then backs out of support, and Villa kills a bunch of Americans,
and now Villa is the one that is opposing America and the Carranza government needing to side
with the US. On to the next term.
Intervention in Mexico 589 With the permission of the Carranza government, Wilson ordered
General John J. Pershing to lead an American expeditionary force across the Mexican border in
pursuit of Villa. They never found him, but they did engage in two skirmishes with Carranza’s
army, in which 40 Mexicans and 12 Americans died. The US and Mexico were once again on
the brink of war, but at the last minute Wilson, who was now focused on the international crisis
in Europe, withdrew from Mexico and granted formal recognition to the Carranza regime.
Competing Alliances 589 With that fiasco out of the way, we look across the Atlantic, where
tensions are getting fucking high. Europe is divided into 2 camps, Britain, France and Russia, vs
Germany, Austria-Hungary, and Italy.
Economic Ties To Britain 589 The US sides with Britain, as we all know. This is due to the
economic ties that they have, which is strengthened by the fact that Britain’s blockade on the
German ports leads to the US only being able to trade with Britain. So the US’s initial standing
of impartial and not taking sides kinda doesn’t work.
Lusitania 590 Germans torpedoed the boat, the US got mad, and according to some historians,
the US lied about the cargo on board. This was pretty much what sold the president on going
into the war, and the US would soon enter WWI
1916 Election 590 As the War kept on going, the US was seemingly looking more and more like
it was to join the war on the side of the British due to the German tensions with the US. Still, in
1916 an election happened and was set to be one of the most important in US history. Due to
Wilson’s ability to keep the US out of the war for his first term, using the chant “We didn’t go to
war!” Wilson barely managed to win the election by 23 electoral votes and 600,000 popular
votes. A close election is needed.
NOW, just to be clear, Wilson actually kinda does wanna go to war. There is too much to be
gained by going to war, after all, the US is already making huge bank off of selling weapons to
Britain.
Zimmermann Telegram 591 Intercepted telegram from the Germans to Mexico, in which the
Germans offer Mexico a chunk of the US if they side with Germany. The British intercepted this,
and the publication of it brought about great outrage in the US.

[PAGE 169]
Stalemate 591 Neither side was gaining any ground in the war, and the Allies looked to the US
for help. Wilson was happy to oblige, and called on the US to wage war “without stint or limit”.
Russian Revolution 592 The Bolshevik Revolution happened in 1917, and Vlad Lenin
negotiated peace with the Central powers, withdrawing troops from the Western Front. The
Entente Powers had just lost a powerful ally.
Selective Service Act 592 SLIGHT ISSUE FOR THE US JOINING THE WAR: Their army was
tiny. Barely 200k total active duty soldiers split into the Army and National Guard, and neither
group was in shape to fight. The Selective Service Act was one of the first National Drafts in the
nation’s history, bringing 3 million men into the army and 2 million voluntarily, forming the
American Expeditionary Force. One cool thing was that Women were also allowed into the Army
for the first time in US history, but not allowed to participate in combat.
Another funny note: the first ever IQ test was used to measure the Intelligence Quotient of the
soldiers, but ended up putting basically all African Americans and half of the White soldiers in
the “moron” category due to a lack of education.
African American Soldiers 593 Treated horribly by Americans, even though many received high
medals of honor in other countries. These soldiers served in segregated units under white
commanders.
General John Pershing 593 The engagement of these forces in combat was intense but brief.
Not until the spring of 1918 were significant numbers of American ground troops available for
battle. Eight months later, the war was over. Under the command of General John J. Pershing,
who led the unsuccessful pursuit of Pancho Villa, the American Expeditionary Force joined the
existing Allied Forces.
Château-Thierry 594 During the war, American troops did not have to go through nearly as
1much of the trench hell that their French and British allies had to go through, and the amount of
bloodshed either side went through to gain just an inch of ground was to the point that by the
time WW1 was over, Germany had lost 15% of their army, and France 18% of their army. Due to
help from American forces, the French were able to take Chateau-Thierry in a matter of 6
weeks. It was with American intervention that the Entente had managed to gain ground so
quickly from 1918 onwards. Why the US couldn’t have done it sooner to lower the amount of
bloodshed is…not a mystery. The US wanted to sell weapons and make money, let's be honest.
Meuse-Argonne Offensive 594 On September 26, the American fighting force joined a large
assault against the Germans in the Argonne Forest that lasted nearly seven weeks. By the end
of October, despite terrible weather, they had helped push the Germans back toward their own
border and had cut the enemy’s major supply lines to the front.
High Casualty Rates 595 Here’s a tally of death on both sides of the war: The French lost 1.7
million. The Germans 2 million. Austria Hungary, 1.5 million. Italy lost 460000, Russia 1.7

[PAGE 170]
million. Turkish death toll 325000. Britain lost a third of their young to mid 20-year old
population. Despite joining late, the US lost 110000 lives to the war. This doesn’t even account
for the number of people that came home with irreversible physical harm that would leave them
unable to work for the rest of their lives. It is in this war that the term “shell-shock” is coined. Due
to the constant explosion and artillery in the war, along with the horrors of watching your best
friend’s face get torn off, many soldiers came home in irreparable mental states of shock.
Financing The War 596 By the time the war ended, the US had spent 32 billion dollars for
expenses directly related to the conflict. This was very surprising for the time, the entire federal
budget rarely exceeded 1 billion dollars before 1915, and in 1910 the nation’s entire GDP had
been only 35 billion dollars.
The US relied on two devices to finance the war, first, it launched a major drive to solicit loans
from the American people by selling “Liberty(Mutual™) Bonds” to the public. By 1920, the sale
of bonds produced 23 billion dollars. The other way was taxes–which brought in an additional
sum of nearly 10 billion dollars. Some of this was from the “excess profits” of corporations, but
much more from new, steeply increased income and inheritance taxes that ultimately rose as
high as 70 percent in some brackets.
War Industries Board 596 Financing the war was equally as hard as fighting it, and the War
Industries Board was created in 1917 to figure out where money for the war would go. Bernard
Baruch was put in control of the place by Wilson, and he basically had full control of the whole
thing, sorting out the US’s finances for the war. This wasn’t all sunshine and rainbows however,
since the agency was plagued by mismanagement and often served to better the interests of
businesses, not the military or the war effort.
Lessons Of The Managed Economy 596 The effort to organize the economy for war produced
amazing results. Hoover’s efficient organization of domestic food supplies, William McAdoo’s
success in untangling the railroads, and many more. However, in other areas, progress was so
slow that the war was over before many of the supplies ordered for it were ready. Even so,
many leaders of both government and industry emerged from the experience convinced of the
advantages of a close, cooperative relationship between the public and private sectors. Some
hoped to continue the wartime experiments in peacetime.
Ludlow Massacre 597 Despite making jobs for the economy, you gotta remember these are
American working jobs, and they aren’t fun to do whatsoever. In Ludlow Colorado, 1914, a
group of workers walked out of the mines on strike with their families, eventually moving to tents
that they set up due to being evicted. The militia was called in to initially protect the workers, but
as you can guess from the title…they ended up siding with the employers.
The militia attacked the workers, killing 39 including 11 children.

[PAGE 171]
“Great Migration” 598 One of the most important social changes of the war years, the “Great
Migration” was the movement of hundreds of thousands of African Americans from the rural
South into northern industrial cities. Like most migrations, there were both push and pull factors.
The push was the poverty, indebtedness, racism, and violence many black men and women
experienced in the South. The pull was the prospect of factory jobs in the urban North and the
opportunity to live in communities where blacks enjoyed more freedom and autonomy.
Race Riots 598 Due to the Great Migration, Whites got increasingly angry at the fact that Black
communities were growing and were beginning to move into predominantly White
neighborhoods. This incited violence. In 1917, a white mob burned down houses, shot
residents, with a death toll of 40 or more African Americans dying in the massacre.
READING QUIZ#4 INFO STARTS HERE
To future Juniors, know about Alice Paul and what she wrote.
Woman’s Peace Party 599 Many in the US all believed the war to be a conflict between rich
capitalist nations for commercial power (true), and in 1915 Carrie Chapman Catt created the
Woman’s Peace Party. This however, created tension between US women, as the Peace Party
was opposing the Woman’s Suffrage Association’s pro-war views.
Maternal Opposition To War 599 This is just saying the same thing as the term right above ^^.
But if you want me to go in depth, a hard ass quote is that “the mother half of humanity” was not
in support of the war.
Yifei is stopping here today. I am tired.
I got it 👍
READING QUIZ#3 INFO ENDS HERE
CPI 602 The Committee on Public Information(CPI), was a government effort to rally public
support via propaganda. It was directed by Denver journalist George Creel, who spoke openly
of the importance of achieving social unity. The CPI supervised the distribution of tons of
pro-war literature and plastered the walls of offices, shops, theaters, schools, churches, and
homes.

[PAGE 172]
Espionage Act 602 ooo espionage!! This basically said that if someone is suspected of spying
on war efforts, they would receive harsh punishments like jail time, or even death. There was
also a ban on “seditious” material from the mails, which are statements that might “impugn the
motives of the government and thus encourage insubordination,” or anything that suggested
“that the government is controlled by Wall Street or munitions manufacturers, or any other
special interests.” More specifically, “espionage” referred to just about anything that was not in
support of the US in WW1.
Sedition Act 602 An extension of the Espionage Act. It expanded the meaning of the Espionage
act to make any public expression of opposition to the war illegal; in practice, it allowed officials
to prosecute anyone who criticized the president or the government.
Repressing Dissent 602 State and local governments, corporations, universities, and private
citizens contributed to the climate of repression as well. Mobs sprang up to “discipline” those
who dared challenge the war. A dissident Protestant clergyman in Cincinnati was pulled from his
bed one night, dragged to a nearby hill, and whipped “in the name of the women and children of
Belgium” by a mob.
“100 Percent Americanism” 602 Groups of citizens who considered themselves “respectable”
tasked themselves with the responsibility of weeding out the “disloyal”. These vigilante terrorist
groups were groups such as the American Protective League and the National Security League,
who would often bring violence to people they considered “disloyal” such as Irish, who were
picked on because historically Irish people had been in opposition to the British, and Jews since
there were anti-semetic views and laws in Russia. Most of all, German Americans were heavily
targeted, despite many German Americans being possibly the most loyal to the American flag,
renaming their foods to stuff like “liberty cabbage” or “liberty sausage” when the war started.
This started a new wave of anti-immigration and Xenophobia in the US.
Wilson’s Idealistic Vision 603 On January 8th, 1918, Woodrow Wilson presented his 14 points
on why he is fighting WW1. The 14 points were not only a set of points that would justify
Wilson’s decision to stay in the war, but most importantly present a peace plan for the
near-to-end war and how Europe would recover and borders would change in Europe. The
important thing to note here is that by presenting the 14 points, the US is therefore declaring
control over the rebuilding of Europe after the war, similar to how the US would declare control
over Japan’s reconstruction after WWII.
Lenin’s Challenge 603 Another big reason behind Wilson’s 14 Points was made was because
Lenin just 3 weeks prior had made a similar speech, promising to help Europe and bring major
reform and similar peace as soon as the war was over. Wilson saw this as directly rivaling US
control of reform in Europe, and as such Wilson made it clear that Lenin would not be allowed
full control over the reform of Europe, and that the US would try their best to take that control.
Allied Intransigence 603 Quick Note: Intransigence basically means stubbornness. As the war
was looking more and more like a win for the Entente, negotiations for peace were already

[PAGE 173]
being made. Or rather, arrangements for peace. This is because the US was basically in full
control of peace deals, largely due to the US putting themselves on a moral pedestal but also
because after Britain had lost a third of their young men, and the French had lost similar
numbers, the 2 countries were very eager to see a full decimation of Germany, and a capture
and execution of the Kaiser.
The Big Four 604 As much as the French and British government were eager to beat down the
Germans who had, by the way, lost similar numbers as the French and British, the general
populace was very eager to see peace. When US President Woodrow Wilson arrived in Paris,
records say the largest crowd in French history was there to greet him. The Big Four refers to
the 4 figures who met in Paris in December of 1918: David Lloyd George representing Britain,
George Clemenceau representing France, and Vittorio Orlando representing Italy. Besides
discussing the general peace of Europe for the post war era, there were also talks about the
Bolsheviks. Soon later, the US landed troops to assist some 60k Czech troops to escape the
Soviet Union, and despite wanting to stay out of conflict, it became increasingly more difficult for
the US and the new Soviet Union to see eye to eye. Woodrow Wilson would not recognize the
Bolshevik as the Russian government, and from here on out until WWII, there was no world
where the US and Soviet Union would dare see peace between one another.
Wilson’s Retreat 604 Wilson was not able to capture the full support of all the European nations
in the Paris Peace meeting, and unable to get all of his wanted reforms. For one, many of the
European nations were unwilling to get rid of their colonies, and if they were, another country
would eagerly take up the former colony. Such is the case with Germany, which gave up their
Asian colonies, but Japan immediately took those colonies for their own.
Reparations 604 The next topic in the Paris Peace meeting were the reparations to be paid.
Initially, it was agreed that Germany would pay a staggering 56 billion dollars, which was later
lowered to 9 billion. Even with such a drastic cut from the initial amount, the battered Germany
couldn’t pay it off.
League Of Nations 605 The most important part of the Paris Peace meeting was the creation of
the League Of Nations. This org would attempt to keep peace between the countries in the
league, oversee International Affairs, and prevent wars.
Wilson’s Intransigence 605 Note: Intransigence again, means stubbornness. Now one thing we
haven’t yet considered is the views of Americans back at home and how they would view the
Paris Peace treaty. Americans were not too happy, since America had been in a period of
European isolation before and the sudden change of pace did not sit with them very well. Wilson
attempted to convince the Senate that his actions were justified but was met with harsh
criticism. Wilson then presented the Versailles Treaty (named after the palace where the
negotiations had taken place). Wilson would not take no for an answer and also refused any
sort of compromise about the treaty. Records say that it was due to Wilson’s deteriorating health
that he was so hell-bent on keeping the Versailles Treaty exactly as it was.

[PAGE 174]
Henry Cabot Lodge 605 The Senate and Wilson were now at a standoff. Neither side was willing
to budge, Wilson would not take any criticism about the Versailles Treaty, and the Senate would
not take the treaty as it was without some sort of compromise. Henry Cabot Lodge was the one
that would oppose Wilson the most, citing how he straight up hated Wilson.
League Membership Rejected 606 Wilson refused to consider any amendments to the
proposals to join the League, and the treaty died out as nobody could really vote it into
existence, and people stopped caring.
New Social Environment 606 People were not really caring about the Peace Conference, as
there were a couple of problems back at home to deal with. The Economy went hahaha boom
and had a huge postwar recession, and most of American became more conservative to cope
with it.
Postwar Recession 606 Yeah, during the 1910s the stock market was doing well, but then the
economic bubble burst, and the entire market went kaboom. Millions of people lost their jobs,
and many went bankrupt. Making things even worse, the factories that were still standing used
this opportunity to regress and start paying less for workers and stuff like that
Boston Police Strike 607 There were a lot of strikes in 1919, and one of the more notable ones
was the Boston Police Strike. Police went on strike for better pay, and that led to a massive
amount of looting, murder, and like you know that one really bad 2010 movie about crime being
legal? Basically that happened. Eventually to fix things Boston FIRED THE ENTIRE POLICE
FORCE and hired a new, less strike prone, police force.
Steelworkers’ Strike Defeated 607 Steelworkers would have the largest strike in American
History when 350000 people walked off their jobs. Too bad everyone was desperate for jobs so
there were a lot of strikebreakers, and also there was a riot where a lot of people had died. The
factories endured the strike for long enough that everyone kinda gave up…
New Black Attitudes 608 Many African Americans expected better treatment in America given
that they just FOUGHT A WAR, but uh yeah. Things did not get better. This led to a bitterness in
many African American Communities, that led to a determination to fight for their rights.
However conveniently, the South also started to lynch people, and many African Americans
were fired in order to make space for White workers during the economic turmoil.
Also many White workers believed that African Americans being willing to work for less made
their unions less effective, leading to even more tension
Chicago Race Riots 608 The wartime riots in East St. Louis and elsewhere were a prelude to a
summer of much worse racial violence in 1919. In Chicago, a black teenager swimming in lake
Michigan on a hot July day happened to drift toward a white beach. Whites on shore then
stoned him(threw stones at him) unconscious, where he sank and drowned.

[PAGE 175]
This led to a mob of black people attacking white neighborhoods, and a mob of white people
attacking black neighborhoods. The whole summer was like this, earning it the title of “The Red
Summer of 1919”.
Marcus Garvey’s Black Nationalism 609 Marcus Garvey, a Jamaican, began to attract a wide
American following amongst poor urban black folks. He had an ideology of black nationalism, in
which African Americans were encouraged to take pride in their own achievements and to
develop an awareness of their African heritage.
Garvey also founded the United Negro Improvement Association (UNIA), which launched a
chain of black-owned grocery stores and encouraged for the creation of other black businesses.
Popular Antiradicalism 610 Many Americans were not very up for the whole radical change
thing, especially after just fighting a war. Many Americans wanted to maintain the norm, and this
caused the “Red Scare”, an anti communist and anti immigrant movement. Many Immigrants
were jumped and discriminated against, and uh apparently some guy got Castrated according to
the textbook…
Palmer Raids 610 A series of Raids orchestrated by General A. Mitchell Palmer and J. Edgar
Hoover, they were intended to uncover large caches of weapons and explosives, but they only
found three pistols. Most of those arrested were released, but 500 people who weren’t citizens
were deported.
Sacco And Vanzetti 610 Sacco and Vanzetti are italian immigrants that are convicted of murder
on questionable at best evidence. However, since they are A. Immigrants B. Anarchists, both
public opinion and the FUCKING JUDGE want these guys dead. Soo oop! Guilty! Death
sentence!!
This really highlights how fucked up the Red Scare was
Return to “Normalcy” 611 In the 1920 election, a number of big name candidates were running,
such as Woodrow Wilson, James M Cox, Warren G. Harding (an Ohio govenor) and FDR, who
at the time was just a Secretary of the Navy. Out of all of these though, the most popular was
Warren Gamaliel Harding, some random Ohio senator who offered “normalcy”, something which
Americans after WW1 so desperately wanted. Winning every state in the south and 61 percent
of the popular vote, Harding added extra winnings by making big progress in congress as well.
Thus marked a new era of the US.
Normalcy (the term I put here) - Restoring pre-WW1 life focusing on isolation, economic growth
and limited government intervention
Sources of the boom 615 America’s economy got a huge boom after WW1, establishing the
United states as a powerful country to be reckoned with. They were basically the only country

[PAGE 176]
with enough money to ensure a safe economy and country for the next 10 years. Automobiles
became one of the most important industries and in return, people bought a lot of cars and
materials resulting in more roads being constructed.
Radio 615 Before the 1920s, radios could only emit pulses but through modulation, it became
possible to emit speech and music through radios. Modulation later was used to make
televisions etc
Early Computers 616 1920s-1930s, English and American scientists turned “primitive
calculating machines” (calculators basically) into big brain calculators that could do more
complex tasks. Some people at Harvard and MIT made this computer that could multiply
eleven-digit numbers in three seconds, but I don't think that is relevant.
Modern Administrative Systems 616 General Motors(car company)’s founder, William Durant,
didnt have a formal management system so when leadership of GM passed onto Alfred P. Sloan
he developed the Modern Systems which increased efficiency of GM and smaller companies
that adopted it aswell were able to expand further.
Modern Admin. System - filing and record keeping, office correspondence, visitor and phone call
management, internal communication, financial management and other administrative duties.
Trade Associations 617 this one hurt my brain - it cant be that bad WHAT
Uh. Industries that were less likely to be monopolized decided that instead of consolidating
companies into a big conglomerate, industries would get together to set standards and stuff.
yeah?
Welfare Capitalism 617 Employers wanted workers to not have as bad working conditions to
avoid things that could disrupt their labor so they improved some working conditions. Henry
Ford, shortened the work week, increased wages and employed payed vacations. Steel
companies had better sanitation and safety.
Hard times for Organized Labor 617 The fact that everyone is broke, plus the fact that a lot of
unions couldn’t adapt to the current economic conditions meant that they were weak as hell.
Unions rarely considered the majority of unskilled workers, and kept on focusing on small
groups of skilled workers. So you could say that Unions were weak because of a SKILL ISSUE
AHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHA.
Pink Collar Jobs 617 Large and growing part of the workforce was women, women basically did
low paying pink collar jobs like as secretaries, salesclerks, telephone, operators, etc. They were
paid much lower bc they were often discriminated against and labor organizations weren’t
interested.
Ngl i was looking for the sussex pledge i dont think its in the text book but its a funny name so
heres a funny little guy the what pledge??????

[PAGE 177]
🧌
this is larry nuh uh plus nobody can see it unless they are on mac/ios
nuh uh i have a chrome book !
Philip Randolph 620 The AFL(American Federation of Labor) often would try and discriminate
against women and people of color. The Brotherhood of Sleeping Car Porter was founded by
Philip to fight for the black work force. This led to better wages and better working hours for
black people.
Protecting the Open Shop 621 The open shop is a system where no worker is required to join a
union. Protection of the open shop was needed because corporate leaders spread the idea that
unionism(protection of workers rights) was harmful to corporations.
Protection of the open shop created the “American Plan” which was soon endorsed by the
National Association of Manufactures in 1920. This campaign busted many unions across the
US.
Mechanized Farming 622 What’s better than farming? Farming with Machines! Tractors,
combines, and other mechanical devices allow for more land (35 million acres) to be viable
farmland. In addition the creation of pesticides and fertilizers would lead to even more food
being produced.
● However, the population was not growing as fast as the Agriculture Industry, leading to a
massive decrease in Food prices as the supply greatly outmatched the demand.
“Parity” 622 Because of the food prices being stupidly and unsustainably low, many farmers
supported the idea of Parity. Parity is pretty much the idea that the government would set the
price of food at a price where farmers would always recoup their funds no matter what the
markets might look like.
McNary Haugen Bill 622 The McNary Haugen Bill was a bill that would introduce parity for grain,
cotton, tobacco, and rice, but the bill got vetoed by Calvin Coolidge. Twice even. damn.
Growing Mass Consumption 622 Overall, the urban living of the 1920s led to a lot more people
having the buying power to purchase goods that weren’t directly tied to survival (food, rent, etc).
Middle Class Families began to be able to buy luxuries like Washing Machines, Fridges, and
vacuum cleaners. Men started to buy watches, and Women began to buy lots of makeup.

[PAGE 178]
But most importantly, Americans bought a whole lotta cars.
Social Impact of the Automobile 622 The Automobile affected American culture greatly. People
began to have the opportunity to travel to places far away to visit friends and family and stuff. In
addition, many began to travel to other cities for vacations and stuff.
The Automobile also led to the creation of suburbs near major cities, as people were able to
commute now.
It also led to a lot of independence between young people and their families, as they could
move away much easier.
The Man Nobody Knows 623 The man who erased his name???? (John Yakuza??)
The Man Nobody Knows is a book made by some advertising guy that portrayed Jesus as a
very good salesman that took 12 men from the gutter and turned them into a business that
conquered the world. What the heck. Just think of it as the bible but like business themed.
The book basically combined the bible with the new consumerist culture.
Mass Circulation Magazines 623 Cheap Magazines that were easily circulated allowed
information to travel to rural areas very fast. In addition, it made it so information was more
easily spread, becoming an alternative to newspapers (imagine getting a summary of the news
once a month kinda)
Hollywood 623 Movies were becoming a very popular form of media, and more than 100 million
people saw movies in the 1930s. Hollywood was a place where a lot of movies were made, and
apparently it was also a really bad place to work but the Book doesn’t say why. So then they
created the Motion Picture Association, and had some guy named Will Hays decide to censor
whatever??? What is the book cooking here bruh.
Harry Emerson Fosdick 624 Name aside, The new consumer culture led to new ideas about
religion. Harry Emerson Fosdick was a christian who believed that the basis of Christianity was
to develop people into better people, rather than just a thing of faith. He wrote a book about it
too.
People also started taking religion less seriously.
Limited Opportunities for Women 624 In the 1920s, people began to get used to the idea of
educated women. However, the opportunities for work for women were still very limited. Women
were often confined to “feminine” fields of work like fashion, education, and social work.
Despite the idea that women were working a lot more, most married women really still stayed at
home.

[PAGE 179]
“Companionate Marriages” 625 For many women, marriage became less of a survival or having
kids type of thing, but instead people began marrying for more fulfilling and happy lives!!! Wow
what a great idea guys! “Companionate Marriages” were basically women being in marriages
that made them happier. Also people had sex a lot more because of birth control. yeah.
Birth Control 625 an Idea pioneered by Margret Sanger , Birth control was the idea that people
could control their reproductive rights! Sanger worked to persuade many to use birth control,
arguing that women should be able to get enjoyment out of sex without having to have a kid.
Because of her actions, birth control would become a much more popular (but still controversial)
thing overall.
Equal Rights Amendment 626 An Amendment being argued for that would give women Equal
Rights to men? I think so at least, the book never explicitly says what the Amendment would
entail…
It never really passed congress and some feminists didn’t like it for whatever reasons.
Youth Culture 627 Instead of being forced to work in the MINES or the FACTORIES, people
began to realize that educating kids and letting them grow up with other kids was, in fact, a good
thing.Schools became more popular, and began to help prepare kids for the future. In addition,
schools began to have sports programs and clubs and stuff.
Sheppard Towner Act 627 An Act that would provide funds to the states for prenatal care and
child support. However, some feminists did not like the bill because it would discourage birth
control efforts, and the fact it would allow for unlicensed doctors to care for kids.
Lost Generation Critique 628
The Lost generation refers to the generation of still pretty young people that returned from
fighting WWI. Many of these people would be shell shocked and come back from the war jaded
and pessimistic about the world around them. Coming back to a US that focused on materialism
and consumerism led to the idea that the war was fought for nothing. Many books and movies
were made that suggested that the war was pointless, and that people were justified in not
fighting the war.
H.L. Mencken 629 H.L. Mencken was a journalist whose magazines– S mart Set and American
Mercury – ridiculed everything most middle class Americans held dear. This included: religion,
politics, the arts, and even democracy. Mencken could not believe, or so he claimed, that
“civilized life was possible under a democracy.”
Rejecting Success 630 Other authors also shared similar views to Mencken. Sinclair Lewis, the
first American to win a Nobel Prize in Literature, wrote a series of novels where he lashed out at
various aspects of modern society. Author F. Scott Fitzgerald also attacked The American
Dream™ with The Great Gatsby . We’ve all read it, so i’m not going to explain how he attacked
The American Dream™.

[PAGE 180]
African American Pride 631 Many educated African Americans made a significant impact in pop
culture at the time. Authors had the biggest impact, with many being picked up by white
publishers and developed readership of all races.
Failure of Prohibition 631 Prohibition did not in fact, solve domestic violence, crime, and turn
the world into
Realistically, the only thing Prohibition did was reduce drinking and also have a bunch of
problems.
First, they had 1500 people hired to enforce prohibition. For the ENTIRE COUNTRY. Yeah. also
people just turned to crime to get beer and stuff.
Alcohol and Organized Crime 631 HEY BOSS SIC YOUR GOONS ON HIM.
Yeah, prohibition led to a lot of crime groups trying to sell alcohol and make money off of it.
Since it was illegal to sell alcohol, and people still wanted it, many groups of criminals would
fight each other for the ability to sell alcohol and get rich. Al Capone would make a name for
himself, leading to the deaths of 250+ people.
National Origins Act of 1924 631 The National Origins Act banned immigration from East Asia
Entirely. Banned. Gone! Mods, prevent the Japanese and Chinese from immigrating to the US.
It also reduced the amount of Europeans able to enter the US as well. Fun!.
The New Klan 632 Guess who’s back. Back again. The KKK’s back. Goddammit. In 1915, White
southerners decided to restart the Klan, with Nativist Ideals. The movie The Birth of a Nation
made the Klan very popular. The Klan also had a new view, instead of focusing on African
Americans, they focused on Catholics, Jews, and immigrants.
Defending “Traditional Values” 633 The Klan was not just against immigrants, but against the
changing or removal of “Traditional Values”. WHich meant like, not being white christians, and
drinking alcohol? Basically they were against a lot of the societal changes during the 1920s.
David Stephenson 633 The klan declined again, especially after a lot of their leaders turned out
to be pedophiles and rapists. Who would have guessed the hate group leaders are a bunch of
sick fucks?
Davis Stephenson was the head of the Indiana Klan, and raped a secretary, kidnapped her, and
then let her die eating poison. .
yeah.

[PAGE 181]
Scope’s Monkey Trial 634 John T Scopes is a teacher arrested for the highly dangerous and
extreme crime of teaching that the Bible wasn’t everything. More specifically, he taught the
theory of evolution. He was sued by the state of Tennessee, and this case became a worldwide
phenomenon.
At the time, there was a lot of Religious Fundamentalism, which basically meant that the Bible
was the answer to everything, and that teaching science was bad because it went against the
bible.
Yeah Scopes loses but then the case gets dismissed.
Also the case makes a lot of religious fundamentalism look stupid, which led to the movement
dying out. (thank god) (wait a minute…)
Al Smith 635 Al Smith is the Democratic nominee in 1928, but some people in the south don’t
like him, so he has a mixed level of support in the South. This mixed support leads to Herbert
Hoover, his Republican Opponent, sweeping him and winning by like, a lot.
Teapot Dome 636 Warren Harding was kinda a lame president, and apparently he had a lot of
vices. He appointed a lot of his supporters to cabinet positions, and turns out… Corruption!
Alber B Fall, was caught selling the Teapot Dome (place in Wyoming) private oil reserves to
some businessmen for some “help” with his massive amount of loans. He was convicted of
bribery and thrown in jail for a year.
Calvin Coolidge 636 Calvin Coolige is the president AFTER William Harding, and he is a very
puritanical guy, who was very honest as well. Like Harding, he was kinda a loser president who
didn’t do much. He believed the government should interfere as little as possible in the Nation’s
affairs, and uh yeah he’s president. yup.
Andrew Mellon 637 Mellon is a Steel and aluminium baron who leads to a lot of taxes on
corporations being cut.
Hoover’s “Associationism” 637 Herbert Hoover was a president who believed in
Associationalism, the creation of national organizations of industries. These Organization would
regulate business and help marketing and whatever.
READING QUIZ#4 INFO ENDS HERE

[PAGE 182]
READING QUIZ#5 INFO STARTS HERE
(Small note: For Hunneke/Bellas (and maybe Miller), review previous assignments too. Ref:
Canvas)
I would recommend looking at the Mexican American and Filipino stuff as well
“Brain Trust” (not in textbook) - FDR’s advisers who crafted New Deal Programs
The Three R’s for the new deal (not in textbook) - Relief, recovery and reform
Relief - Feed, clothe, house and then put people to work right away.
- FERA, CCC, CWA, WPA, HOLC, NYA, Federal Arts Project, Federal Project No. 1
Recovery - help the economy and people recover, regain success (employment programs).
- AAA, NRA, TVA, IRA, PWA
Reform - Put system in place to make sure this type of catastrophe never happens again.
- SSA, Wagner Act (NLRA), Glass-Steagal Act, FHA, SEA, FDIC, FLSA
FLSA - Federal Labor Standards Act established minimum wage and no child labor after the
failure of the NRA/NIRA. (Think this as more for workers)
Wagner Act (NLRA) - basically replaced the NIRA by permanently protecting worker’s rights to
unionize and bargain collectively. (This this as more for unions)
Reconstruction Finance Corporation - Under Hoover, the corporation provided emergency
financing to banks, railroads and industries in the great depression.
Smoot Hawley Tariff - tariff by Hoover on 20k imported goods by 20-60%.
Repatriate - Deportation | Tydings McDuffie Act - Filipino Independence for 10 years, 50
Filipinos allowed to enter the US annually, extension of the 1924 immigration act | Filipino
Repatriation Act (‘35) - Paid passage for Filipinos to leave America.
Stock Market Boom 640 In the 1920s, the stock market was going up a LOT with many shares
being bought, and a lot of people offering CREDIT to buy MORE STOCKS with. So people are
borrowing money to buy stocks with fluctuating prices…
“Black Tuesday” 640 On October 29, the stock market went bust, as everyone started dumping
all their stocks. The Index dropped like 43 points, and a lot of companies failed. WHILE MANY
SAY THIS CAUSED THE GREAT DEPRESSION, THE BOOK EMPHASIZES THAT THERE
WERE A LOT OF OTHER FACTORS THAT LED TO THE GREAT DEPRESSION
Lack of Diversification 641 First of which, is the lack of diversification in the Nations Industries.
The US produced cars… and not much. But like, people can only own so many cars so yeah
eventually this industry was going to crash.
Maldistribution of Wealth 641 Ok so like you know how wages suck at this point? The average
American did not have a lot of buying power, with more than 50% of americans being BELOW
the poverty line. And since America is focusing on producing a lot of consumer goods, 50% of
the nation can’t even afford to BUY STUFF. So yeah that’s a problem.

[PAGE 183]
Declining Exports 642 Europe started buying less American goods due to high tariffs and also
the fact that other countries are also in CRIPPLING DEBT TO THE US .
Unstable International Debt Structure 642 yeah. Britain and France are in EXTREME BIG AF
debt to the US, and they realistically could not pay off their debts. This is also kinda why
Reparations for Germany were suggested and fought for so hard, so that they could use
Germany’s money to pay off their debts. Germany isn’t even able to really buy stuff, they are in
EXTRA DEBT+ DELUXE PRO MAX.
The US Banks tried to solve this problem by… loaning more money. Making things worse,
American tariffs are so damn high that nobody is buying European goods, which means that the
economies of Europe are fucked even more.
And then everyone defaulted on their loans…
Banking Collapse 643 At this point in time, banks are not insured. So when the stock market
crashes, a LOT of banks lose all their investments. By Association, this meant a lot of people
just… lost their money. This leads to massive deflation and layoffs.
Some people believe that if the government insured the banks, the depression could have been
mitigated or even avoided.
Severe Contraction 643 Basically, deflation. THere is not enough money going around. The
nation’s Gross national product drops by 25 BILLION, and like… everyone’s poor pretty much.
Belief in Personal Responsibility 644 The American Dream is the idea that hard work is the only
thing that makes people successful in America, and right now everyone is NOT successful. SO
a lot of people feel really ashamed of themselves and get depressed. A lot of families are relying
on the kindness of others and charity to stay alive, and basically life sucks.
African American Suffering 645 Yeah guess who loses their jobs first? Not a big surprise,
African Amerians are already in poverty most of the time, so now a lot of them have 0 INCOME
and are forced to move. Many Migrate North in hope of finding jobs. However, African
Americans are often sidelined in order to give their white counterparts the Job priority.
“Dust Bowl” 645 TF2 REFERENCE
Basically in the Great Plains, there is a drought, leading to crops dying and there being a lot of
dust. Hence the name…
Okies are people moving from the Dust Bowl (which is pretty much Oklahoma) and moving to
other places like California.
NAACP’s Changing Role 646 The NAACP becomes more of an African American Labor Union
thing, with people arguing for better working conditions and more pay and stuff.

[PAGE 184]
Scottsboro Case 646 The Scottsboro case is a group of teenagers that are found as stowaways
on a train. However, some white women accuse them of rape. Despite the overwhelming
evidence of no rapes happening, the 9 teens were all SENTENCED TO DEATH. Their
sentences were overturned, but they were held in prison for a while, with some of them leaving
jail in the 1950s.
Discrimination Against Hispanics 646 A lot of hispanic people lose their jobs, and are even
deported from the US, despite their status as US citizens. Great Depression stuff, people
thought “repatriating” Hispanics would be more beneficial to the cities’ economies(it wasn’t).
___________________________________________________________________________
Japanese American Citizens League 648 In California (Where most of the Japanese people
lived), the great Depression led to a lot of discrimination and a lack of jobs. The Japanese
American Citizens League was a group of people that fought for more rights, and also tried to
overcome discrimination by assimilating and becoming more “American”
Chinese people were mentioned too, but it just says that they worked laundromats and
restaurants (wow who would have guessed guys)
Popular Disapproval of Women’s Employment 648 The Great Depression reinforced the idea
that women should stay in the home for many. That’s it.
Increased Women’s Employment 648 Despite the point directly above it, many women did in
fact, go to work. Despite the condemnation of it, many women went to work because people
needed money to like, not starve. By the end of the depression, 20% more women were working
than had been doing so pre Great Depression.
Retreat From Consumerism 649 You know how everyone was buying goods because they had
the money to do so? Well, nobody has the money to do so anymore, so many people stopped
buying goods. People went back to making their own clothes and making their own food and
stuff liek that.
Also divorce rates went down because nobody could afford to divorce
Persistence of the “Success” Ethic 649 THE CEO MINDSET
Despite the fact that like everyone is broke and poor and struggling, THe depression didn’t
really do anything to the idea of the American Dream
Self Blame 650 In Fact, it kind of reinforced the idea? Many unemployed people blamed (the
beasts) themselves for not being able to hold a job and support their families
“Discovery” of Rural Poverty 650 Wow so everyone was poor in big cities because there are no
jobs, but then people are SHOCKED and AMAZED that people in rural areas are also poor.
Wow it’s almost like there was some kind of dust bowl guys.

[PAGE 185]
Anyway, yeah the government got people to like take photos and record the extent of poverty,
and apparently it was pretty bad
Depression Literature 650 Yeah during this time of big sad and everyone being poor, there was
a lot of literature that echoed the sentiment that many people had at the time, that being that
being poor is bad and also that capitalism sucks.
Also during the depression, a lot of escapism (ISEKAI??? Oh my god i actually said that…)
Not anime, but in fact superman and other hero comics and stuff. Film noir????
Escapist Programming 651 On the radio, many Americans listened to Escapist programming,
with comedies, adventures with superheroes and powerful figures, and other entertainment
programs to get people’s minds off crippling poverty and starvation.
Radios provided Americans with a lot of instant information, like sports games or public events,
or even news.
Radio’s Impact 651 The Radio allowed for events like the Baseball World Series or the
Hindenburg disaster to become major events in the minds of all Americans.
Also once some guys did a radio play of “War of the Worlds” and then half of America thought
they were being jumped by aliens…
Continuing Of Popular Movies 651 Movies are still pretty popular, although there was a dip in
attendance due to the slight problem of EVERYBODY STILL BEING POOR GUYS I THINK WE
GET THE IDEA OF THE AVERAGE FINANCIAL STATUS.
Anyway, yeah movies are cool, and some guy named Will Hays gets to censor all of em. Movie
adaptations of novels and stuff are coming out too. Cool!
Walt DIsney 652 The 1930s led to the rise of Disney Animations. Steamboat Willie came out in
1928 (and is now copyright free) and he got popular. Cool! Snow White comes out in 1937 and
is like the first major length animated film to become popular.
Life Magazine 653 Magazines become popular, and Life Magazine focuses on the current state
of the US, a little bit of politics, but mostly pop culture, such as sporting events and theater
productions. Also a lot of photographs of Americans living their lives.
Spanish Civil War 654 As a result of economic panic and stuff, there are some extreme
responses. One is a hard Left turn towards communism, and the other being a hard Right turn
towards Facism.

[PAGE 186]
So During the 1920s ish in Spain, there was a civil war between Fascists and the existing
republican government. This fight got a decent amount of Americans to join the fight against
Facism, such as Author Ernest Hemingway.
Southern Tenant Farmers’ Union 654 The STFU Was a group of farmers that supported the
Socialist Party of America. According to the book, they attempted to create economic reform,
but didn’t really accomplish anything. Popular front - communist (anti fascist).
The Left’s Newfound Respectability 655 The New Deal led to the left wing looking more
respectable. That’s it
The Grapes of Wrath 655 The Grapes Of Wrath is a novel about people living in the dust bowl
that move to California in search of work. And then everyone in their family dies of like, illness
and stuff.
Failure of Voluntarism 656 To solve the great depression, Herbert Hoover came up with the
brilliant idea of Voluntaris where he told business “please do not fire workers” and told people to
donate to charity.
This did not work.
Agricultural Marketing Act 656 The Agricultural Marketing act established a Farm Board to loan
money to corporations to buy excess crops. This in theory, would increase crop prices. However
at the same time, Hoover raised tariffs on agriculture, which led to less food exports.
Hoover’s Declining Popularity 656 People were getting mad at Hoover’s lack of doing anything
at all to fix the great depression, leading to him being blamed for the Great Depression. Shanty
Towns would be named “Hoovervilles” just to rub it in.
Shanty Towns were basically just impoverished settlements constructed from metal scraps,
wood and cardboard. Search it up and you’ll see the full picture.
Reconstruction Finance Corporation 656 The Reconstruction Finance Corporation was a
government agency that gave money to banks, railroads, and other businesses that are failing
at the moment. It only lent money to institutions that could pay it back though, so most of the
money went to large banks that could tank the hit of the Great Depression. yay.
Farmers Holiday Association 657 A group of iowan farmers who got fed up and stopped sending
produce to the rest of the US. They basically went on strike. They started this because of the
low wages that they were working.
Demise of the Bonus Army 657 During The Great Depression, many WWI veterans were pretty
angry that they didn’t get their $1000 bonus when their service ended, and went and marched to
DC. This ended up not working for them, and President Herbert Hoover ordered that the police
and eventually military be sent to stop the protest. Eventually, violence broke out and 2 veterans

[PAGE 187]
were killed. Kind of crazy that these folks who fought one of the bloodiest wars in history for the
US just a decade ago would end up dead by the US. Another reason to hate Herbert Hoover I
guess.
FDR Nominated 658 New York Governor FDR was the Democratic nominee opposing Herbert
Hoover in the 1932 election.
Note: Don’t use TLDR’s for studying, they don’t have enough information
1932 Election 658 - Roosevelt wins by receiving 57.4% vs 39.7% for Hoover. The Electoral
College was even more in favor of Roosevelt with Delaware, Pennsylvania, Connecticut,
Vermont, New Hampshire and Maine all supporting Hoover, but every other state supporting
Roosevelt. TLDR: Basically Roosevelt wins by a landslide.
Banking Class 659 - In February, a crisis spawns when the American banking system suddenly
decides to shit itself. Public confidence in the banks also shit itself with depositors withdrawing
their money, and one bank closed after another with many declaring bankruptcy. After Hoover
tells Roosevelt to get his shit together and give public assurances that there would be no
tinkering with money, no heavy borrowing, no unbalancing of budget, Roosevelt refuses.
TLDR: February marks the point where American banking shits itself, public confidence drops
and people withdraw their money, leading to banks declaring bankruptcy.
Roosevelt’s Personality 662 - Very cheerful guy in the face of despair. In his inaugural address,
he said that Americans only needed to fear themselves and not other countries and promised to
take drastic actions against emergencies like war. He was the first president to make use of the
radio, where he explained his programs (like the emergency banking act) and plans to people
(called fireside chats) which boosted public confidence. He basically got respect for being one of
the boys. Journalists loved him so much that they didn’t take photos of him being paralyzed (so
the American public didn’t know about his polio).
TLDR: very popular with his fireside chats, cheerful personality, patriotism and booster of public
confidence.
“Bank Holiday” 662 - 2 days after taking office, FDR issued a proclamation stating that all
American banks close for 4 days until Congress could meet in a special session for bank
reforming. It helped relieve stress and 3 days later he passed the Emergency Banking Act,
which protected larger banks from being dragged down by weaknesses of smaller banks. It also
provided for Treasury Department inspection of all banks before they reopened. Congress was
pissed about this but within 3 days, the banking crisis ended. So yay.
TLDR: After taking office, FDR says American banks close for 4 days until Congress could
decide on bank reforms. 3 days later, the Emergency Banking Act gets passed which protects
larger banks from being dragged down by smaller ones. Within 3 days the banking crisis ended.

[PAGE 188]
Economy Act (added this myself) - After the Emergency Banking Act, FDR sends the Economy
Act which convinced conservatives (business guys especially) that the fed gov was in safe,
responsible hands. It balanced the federal budget by cutting the salaries of government
employees and reduced pensions to vets by 15%.
TLDR: Economy Act - FDR uses the Economy Act to convince businesses and conservatives
that the fed gov was in good hands. It cut salaries of government employees and reduced
pensions to vets by 15%.
Prohibition Repealed 663 - Now sale and manufacture of beer is legalized with a 3.2% alcohol
content. The 21nd amendment (to kill prohibition) passed in 1933.
AAA 663 - Agricultural Adjustment Act (1933) passed to reduce crop production to end over
supply of agriculture and reduce inflation of farm prices. Through the Agricultural Adjustment
Administration (Yes, the AAA), farmers could decide on production limits for their crops, and the
AAA would tell the farmer how much they should produce. Adding on, the AAA would pay them
subsidies for the land not being used. Income increased by ½ and made the agricultural
economy stable. The AAA favored larger farmers over smaller ones.
TLDR: Agricultural Adjustment Act is passed to end overproduction of agriculture and deflate
prices. The Agricultural Adjustment Administration would pay them subsidies for unused land.
Income increased by a half and made the agriculture economy stable.
“Rural Electrification” 663 - Poor farmers also got help. The Resettlement Administration (1935)
and its successor, the Farm Security Administration (1937) gave loans to farmers so they could
relocate to better lands. But it only moved less than 1k farmers. More effective was the Rural
Electrification Administration (1935) which made electric power available for the first time to
many farmers.
TLDR: Rural Electrification - Rural Electrification Administration (‘35) gave electricity for the first
time to many farmers.
NRA 666 - Thanks to Roosevelt, the National Industrial Recovery Act (‘33) gets passed because
business leaders don’t enjoy workers being pissed at low salaries and high prices and they also
hate antitrust laws (so those get relieved). The National Recovery Administration, the agency for
this act, had a leader named Hugh S. Johnson (very interesting name) who told every business
to accept a temporary “blanket code”: minimum wage between 30 and 40 cents an hour with
max workweek of 35-40 hrs + abolition of child labor, so many people agreed with it.
Unfortunately, the codes were poorly and hastily written and the fed officials had no experience
running such a big program. Big companies manipulated the rules of the NIRA to work to their
advantage at the expense of small businesses.

[PAGE 189]
TLDR: The National Recovery Administration runs the National Industrial Recovery Act (NIRA)
and is led by Huge Johnson I mean Hugh S. Johnson who said everyone in business should
accept a “blanket code” which made minimum wage 30-40c/hour with max workweek 35-40 hrs
+ no more child labor. Cuz the rules were poorly written and fed officials had no experience
running the program, big companies manipulated the rules to work in their favor.
Section 7(a) 666 - Section 7(a) of the NIRA said workers could form unions and engage in
collective bargaining and encouraged others to do the same. BUT, it had no ways to enforce
said terms. Thus, employers ignored it and increased wages were not recognized as well. The
Public WOrks Administration (PWA, 1933) which was to execute orders from the NIRA’s
spending programs was very slow at spending funds and it didn’t help the economy fast
enough. Industrial production fell after the NRA began. Schechter Poultry Corp v. United States
case led to the Supreme Court to declare the NIRA unconstitutional which ended the program.
By the way, the PWA funded large scale public works (construction) to boost the economy.
TLDR: Section 7a of the NIRA said workers could form unions, but had no way to enforce the
terms. Employers ignored the NIRA and the PWA’s execution of the NIRA was very slow and it
couldn’t help the economy. The NRA failed at industrial production and Schechter Poultry Corp
v. The United States ended the NIRA.
TVA 66b7 - After the AAA and NRA supported economic planning but let farmers and business
leaders stay in control, reformers got mad and said the fed gov should control planning directly.
The solution? - The TVA (Tennessee Valley Authority 1933) focused on regional planning and
cheap electricity for farmers. It built dams, prevented flooding, improved transportation, and
encouraged industry in the Tennessee Valley. The TVA didn’t challenge racial discrimination.
TLDR: Tennessee Valley Authority gives cheap electricity to farmers. It built dams, prevented
flooding, improved transportation and encouraged industry in the Tennessee Valley.
Glass-Steagall Act 668 - The early New Deal expanded federal control over the economy. The
Glass-Steagall Act regulated banks, separated commercial banking and investment banking,
and created the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), which insured bank deposits up
to $2,500. In 1935, a new banking law gave more power to the Federal Reserve Board in
Washington, strengthening federal control over banking .
TLDR: Glass-Steagall Act regulated banks, separated commercial and investment banks and
made the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation to insure bank deposits.
SEC 668 - To protect investors, Congress passed the Securities Act of 1933, which required
companies to give full and accurate information about new stocks. In 1934, it created the
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to regulate and monitor the stock market. These
laws increased government oversight after scandals and criminal trials damaged public trust in
Wall Street.

[PAGE 190]
TLDR: Through the Securities Act, the SEC will now police the stock market to increase gov
oversight after scandals that damaged public confidence in Wall Street.
CWA 668 - FDR creates the Federal Emergency Relief Administration (FERA) to give cash to
states for relief, led by Harry Hopkins. However, Roosevelt preferred work relief instead of direct
handouts. So the Civil Works Administration (CWA) was created, providing over 4 million
temporary jobs building roads, schools, and parks to boost the economy and help the
unemployed.
TLDR: CWA is created to provide jobs for building roads, schools and parks to boost the
economy and help the unemployed. FERA gave cash to states for relief.
CCC 668 - FDR strongly supported the Civilian Conservation Corps (CCC), which gave young
unemployed men jobs in parks and forests doing conservation work; however, camps were
racially segregated.
To help struggling farmers and homeowners, the gov created the Farm Credit Administration
and passed the Frazier-Lemke Farm Bankruptcy Act to help farmers keep their land. It also
established the Home Owners' Loan Corporation to refinance home mortgages and later the
Federal Housing Administration (FHA) to insure home loans.
TLDR: Civilian Conservation Corps gave young unemployed men jobs in parks and forests for
racially segregated conservation work.
Farm Credit Administration - passed the Frazier-Lemke Farm Bankruptcy act to help farmers
keep their land
Home Owners Loan Corporation (HOLC) - Refinance home mortgages
Federal Housing Administration (FHA) - insured home loans
American Liberty League 669 - By 1934, critics on both the right and left strongly attacked the
New Deal. Wealthy conservatives, including the Du Pont family, formed the American Liberty
League to oppose FDR’s policies, calling them too powerful and anti-business, but the group
gained little support beyond industrial leaders. Radical groups like the Communist Party USA
and the Socialist Party of America also criticized the New Deal, yet they failed to gain
widespread public support.
TLDR: Wealthy conservatives form the unpopular American Liberty League which opposes FDR
cuz they are too anti-business. Unpopular radical groups like the Communist Party USA and the
Socialist Party also criticize the New Deal.
Townsend Plan 669 - During the New Deal, some powerful political movements challenged
Roosevelt from outside the usual left–right spectrum. Dr. Francis Townsend proposed giving
Americans aged 60+ a $200 monthly pension if they retired and spent the $200, gaining over 5
million supporters; although Congress rejected his plan, it helped build support for the 1935
Social Security Act. Father Charles Coughlin, a popular radio priest from Michigan, who liked

[PAGE 191]
Roosevelt but later criticized him and promoted major banking and currency reforms. He
founded the National Union for Social Justice in 1935 and had one of the largest radio
audiences in the country. The NUSJ hated jews and communism and capitalism and ensured
economic well-being for the entire community.
TLDR: The Townsend Plan - Francis Townsend said we should give 60+ y.o Americans a $200
monthly pension. Congress rejected the plan but it built support for the 1935 Social Security Act.
Father Charles Coughlin founded the National Union for Social Justice in 1935 and has the
largest radio audiences in the country. The NUSJ hated capitalism and communism and
ensured economic well-being for the entire community.
Huey Long 670 - Senator Huey P. Long of Louisiana becomes a big threat to the New Deal. He
attacks his opponents (banks, oil companies and political elites) which leads to people calling
him a dictator. He remains very popular cuz he builds roads, schools and hospitals. He also
revised tax codes, distributing free textbooks & lowered utility rates. In 1930, he was elected to
the US senate which increased his national influence.
TLDR: Huey Long threatens the new deal by attacking banks, oil companies and political elites.
People call him a dictator but he remains popular cuz he builds roads, schools, hospitals,
revised tax codes, distributed free textbooks and lowered utility rates. In 1930 he was elected to
the US senate.
Share-Our-Wealth Society 670 - At first, Huey Long actually supported FDR but in 1932 broke
relations. He opposed the New Deal and created the Share-Our-Wealth Plan, which said: tax
the rich and redistribute their money to make sure every family has a 5k allowance and a 2-2.5k
salary. In 1934, he formed the Share Our Wealth Society which gained much support. By 1935,
the polls showed that he could win over 10% of the vote, which possibly could have affected
presidential elections.
TLDR: Huey Long creates the Share-Our-Wealth Plan which taxed the rich to distribute the
money to make sure every family had a 5k homestead allowance and a 2.5k salary.
National Labor Relations Board 670 - FDR launches the second new deal to deal with the Great
Depression and political pressure. He becomes more critical of big businesses and begins to
support the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 which limits large utility companies. He
proposes higher, more progressive taxes on the wealthy too. After the Supreme Court struck
down the National Industrial Recovery Act, Congress passed the National Labor Relations Act
of 1935 which created the National Labor RElations Board to protect worker’s rights to form
unions and bargain collectively.
TDLR: National Labor Relations Board - protected workers rights to form unions.
Industrial Unionism 671 - The AFL supports craft unions, which organize workers by specific
skills. But many workers are unskilled at the time so industrial unionism becomes popular. It

[PAGE 192]
basically just organizes all workers in the same industry into one union no matter their job,
which increases a worker’s overall productivity.
TLDR: Industrial Unionism basically organizes all workers in the same industry into one union
no matter the job to boost productivity.
CIO 671 - Many AFL leaders opposed industrial unionism (above term) but John L.Lewis
supported it. After conflicts with the AFL leaders, Lewis decided to form the Committee of
Industrial Organization which became the Congress of Industrial Organization (CIO) in 1936.
The CIO organized all workers in an industry and welcomed women and African Americans and
used more aggressive tactics to unionize major industries like steel and automobiles.
TLDR: John L.Lewis forms the Congress of Industrial Organization after conflicts with AFL
leaders. It aggressively unionized the steel and automobile industry and organized all works in
an industry and welcomed women and African Americans.
Sit-Down Strike 671 - The United Auto Workers (UAW) became popular in 1937 after workers
led a sit-down strike at General Motors by occupying factories and refusing to leave. Michigan
governor Frank Murphy refused to remove them and GM recognized the union. Sit-down strikes
later ended cuz they were seen as illegal. In the steel industry, U.S. Steel recognized unions
peacefully but smaller companies resisted the unions. During the 1937 Memorial Day Massacre,
police killed 10 striking workers and the steel strike failed.
TLDR: United Auto Workers lead a sit-down strike at GM. Steel industry recognized unions, but
small companies didn’t. During the 1937 memorial day massacre, police kill 10 workers and
steel strikes failed.
Organized Labor’s Rapid Growth 671 - After 1937, unions grew a lot. There were 4720 strikes
that year and 80% ended in favor of unions. Union membership increased from 3 million in 1932
to 8 million in 1937 and reached 10 million by 1941, including workers in the steel industry
whose employers eventually recognized unions like the SWOC (Steel Workers Organizing
committee).
TLDR: Unions grow a lot during the late 30s, Unions win a lot of strikes and gain a lot of
members. Yeah, that’s it.
Unemployment Insurance 672 - FDR supports the Social Security Act in 1935, which creates
pensions for old people, which is just unemployment insurance and aid for people with
disabilities and dependent children. Workers and employers paid payroll taxes to fund these
retirement benefits, but the payments were small at first and some groups like domestic and
agricultural workers were excluded. The SSA tried to create an insurance system rather than
simple welfare and became the foundation of America’s long-term social security system.

[PAGE 193]
TLDR: The Social Security Act created unemployment insurance (funded by employers and
workers) to aid old people, disabled people and dependent children. At first the payments were
small and domestic/agricultural workers were excluded.
WPA 673 - The Works Progress Administration was created in 1935 by FDR (why tf do I keep
on mentioning him he’s basically responsible for 100% of all of these acts) to give jobs to
unemployed Americans during the Great Depression. Harry Hopkins led the administration and
he was able to hire millions to build public buildings, roads, bridges and airports. The
Administration also supported artists and writers through special programs and helped young
people through the National Youth Administration. Most job programs mainly helped men, but
women received cash aid for dependent children.
TLDR: Led by Harry Hopkins, the Workers Progress Administration is created to give jobs to
unemployed people during the GD. Work included: building buildings, roads, bridges and
airports. It supported artists and writers. NYA helped young people.
Alf Landon 673 - By 1936, as the economy improved, FDR was likely to win reelection due to
his New Deal. Republicans nominated Alf Landon, but he ran a weak campaign. Opposition
weakened after Huey Long was assassinated in 1935, and the new Union Party failed to gain
support. Roosevelt won a historic landslide, earning about 61% of the vote and carrying every
state except Maine and Vermont, while Democrats strengthened their control of Congress.
TLDR: Republican Alf London - he loses to FDR cuz London’s campaign is weak and FDR
established his superiority through the New Deal.
Electoral Realignment 675 - The 1936 election showed a major party realignment caused by the
New Deal. The Democratic Party built a strong coalition of Western and Southern farmers,
urban workers, the poor, unemployed people, Black voters in Northern cities, progressives, and
liberals. This broad support gave Democrats a long-lasting majority, and it took Republicans
many decades to build a majority coalition again.
TLDR: The 1936 election saw new people supporting different parties. Poor, unemployed
people, African Americans in the North, urban workers, progressives and liberals supported the
Democrats. It took a long time for republicans to gain a majority vote.
Court Packing 675 - After winning reelection in 1936, FDR tried to limit the power of the
conservative Supreme Court of the United States, which had struck down New Deal laws like
the National Industrial Recovery Act and the Agricultural Adjustment Act. In 1937, he proposed
the “Court-packing plan” to add up to six new justices, but Congress rejected it after the Court
began upholding New Deal laws in cases like West Coast Hotel Co. v. Parrish. Although the
Court became more supportive of New Deal reforms, the failed plan hurt Roosevelt politically
and increased opposition from conservatives.

[PAGE 194]
TLDR: In order to limit the power of the Supreme Court (cuz they struck down on ND laws like
the NIRA and AAA), FDR created the Court Packing plan - which added 6 new justices (which
Congress rejected). The failed plan hurt Roosevelt, and conservatives increased their hate
towards FDR.
Roosevelt Recession 678 - The “Roosevelt Recession” of 1937 was blamed on reduced gov
spending. In 1938, FDR asks Congress for 5 billion for public works and relief, which restarts
the economic recovery and supports the idea of gov spending to fight recessions. He also
pushed stronger antitrust actions, leading to the creation of the Temporary National Economic
Committee and more aggressive enforcement. In 1938, Congress passed the Fair Labor
Standards Act, which created a national minimum wage, a 40-hour workweek, and limits on
child labor, though it excluded many women and minority workers at first.
TLDR: Roosevelt Recession of 1937 is blamed on reduced gov spending. The Temporary
National Economic Committee is made for antitrust. Congress passes the Fair Labor Standards
Act to create national minimum wage, 40 hour workweek and no child labor (not for women or
minorities).
End of the New Deal 678 - By the end of 1938, the New Deal had mostly ended because
Congress opposed new major reforms. Franklin D. Roosevelt also began focusing more on
preparing the United States for possible war as global tensions increased, shifting attention
away from domestic reform.
TLDR: ND ended in 1938 cuz Congress opposed new reforms. FDR begins to prepare the US
for war and focuses less on domestic reform.
Federal Welfare State Established 684 THe New deal created the basis of the federal welfare
state, because of all the relief programs. Conservatives were pretty focused on making sure
welfare would not have that big of an impact, and also reinforce some discrimination though…
But! Overall, nice job US government! The new system was a shift towards the government
actually helping the people.
New Expectations of Government 684 The New deal greatly impacted the people’s expectations
of what a government should be doing for the people. First of all, the democratic party became
greatly popular due to FDR, and also made citizens realize they could vote on economic
matters, meaning the people expected their candidates to actually support them economically.

[PAGE 195]
READING QUIZ#5 INFO ENDS HERE
READING QUIZ#6 INFO STARTS HERE
The
Smith–Connally Act (War Labor Disputes Act of 1943) was a US federal law passed
over President FDR’s veto to prevent labor strikes in critical war industries during WWII
Myth of Isolationism 687 Many people in the 1920s described US policy as Isolationism.
However, looking back on it now, the US had a massive impact on world affairs during this time,
which happens to be the OPPOSITE of isolationism.
Washington Conference of 1921 687 The Washington Conference was an attempt to prevent
war by reducing the amount of naval armaments there were in the world. THe proposal limited
the amount of total naval armaments and set a ratio of arms nations could have. This
inadvertently gave Japan a ton of “legal rights” to their imperialist campaign, as Japan had been
allowed quite a few warships given the size of Japan overall…
Kellogg-Briand Pact 688 The Kellogg Briand Pact concluded the Washington Conference when
the French foreign minister Aristide Briand asked the US to join an alliance against Germany.
US secretary Frank Kellogg suggested a worldwide treaty banning war, and a lot of nations
signed.
How the hell were they gonna enforce that????
Circular Loans 688 “the dawes plan”
The Dawes plan was a plan for European economic recovery to fix the main problems that
happened to the world economies after WWI
1. Britain and France are broke
2. Germany is also broke, but they also have to pay reparations to France and Britain
3. Germany is like really really really broke
So the plan was that Americans would give loans to the Germans to help them recover and
build an economy, and in turn France and Britain would reduce to total amount of debt Germany
had
The Plan didn’t really work due to the fact that the Banks used this as an opportunity to make
America a bunch of money by opening factories and stuff in Europe.
Also people pointed out that this put billions of dollars into the hands of a very unstable Europe.
Economic Expansion in Latin America 688 The US government wanted to expand its economic
influence to Latin America. To do so, American Companies invested a lot of money into

[PAGE 196]
Infrastructure, and also offered massive loans to Latin American Governments, loans which
were very very very very very expensive and hard to pay off, leading to a lot of US resentment.
In Latin America, there were also a lot revolutions at this time, and Hoover shifted the US policy
to be “we will deal with whoever is the government at the time we do not care how you get
power”.
Manchuria 690 At this time, Japan was undergoing a depression of their own, and also were
afraid of Russian and Chinese influence and power over Japan. So Japan then invaded
Manchuria (China). Americans were hoping that Japan would just like give up, but then the
Japanese actually conquered Manchuria and the US was like “well fuck. We didn’t see this
coming pls stop”. This did not work. So America just said “well uh, we don’t think you own china
so we don’t recognize your right to do that”.
Failure of America’s Interwar Democracy 690
Basically this whole debacle proved to the world that the US was not gonna enforce a system of
peace, and that the whole international cooperation thing didn’t really work.
FDR’s Bombshell 691 So before Hoover left office, he argued to the world that reinforcing the
world gold standard could fix the economy and that the US would participate in the World
Economic Conference. However by time the conference happened, FDR was president and he
said “yeah fuck you guys old ass boomer shit here screw this” and then the conference did
nothing important.
Reciprocal Trade Agreement Act 691 As a response to the Hawley Smoot Tariff, THis was an
agreement that nations would lower tariffs on each other in order to increase overall trade and
exports. This worked pretty well, but countries couldn;t get American currency, which most
merchants required…
Inter-American Conference 691 A Convention between the US and Latin American
Governments, the Secretary of State Hull (is that his name???) declared that “No State has the
right to intervene in the affairs of another”. This in practice meant that the US government was
going to not use military force in Latin America. Of course the US isn't going to give up all their
influence, so they resorted to economic domination, with American corporations dominating
Latin American economies.
Sources of Isolationism 692 FDR’s calls for world peace through agreements and disarmament
were not going well. Germany and Italy just stopped showing up to world conferences about
peace, and Japan did so as well. So basically a lot of Americans said “screw this” and started
supporting isolationism.
Also leading to more isolationism? The lack of power the League of Nations had in stopping
Japanese imperialism. Also some conspiracy theories that the US joined WWI because of wall

[PAGE 197]
street, arms makers, and other powerful groups tricking the public into joining the war. There
was some actual shadiness, with arms manufacturers doing tax evasion and stuff.
Also Mussolini invading Ethiopia made people fear being dragged into another European war.
Neutrality Acts 693 The Neutrality Acts were designed to prevent the events that people
believed led to the US joining WWI (those events being selling arms and like, traveling on
European ships or something). SO the Neutrality Acts of 1936 and 37 established a mandatory
arms embargo and also gave the president the power to warn Citizens about traveling on ships
that may be targeted during conflicts.
It also created a beta version of “Cash and Carry” where fighting nations could buy US goods if
they showed in in the US and paid cash, and also carried their own goods on their own vessels.
Ethiopia 693 Yeah in October of 1935, Mussolini attacked Ethiopia and also said “Adios ya later
fuckers” to the League of Nations when they tried to politely ask him to stop. Mussolini then
started an alliance with Hitler called the Axis Powers.
This led to a greater call for Isolationism.
Also the Spanish Civil War led to more isolationist ideals.
“Quarantine” Speech 694 Ok also at this time, Japan is still invading and conquering China, so
Roosevelt gives his famous “Quarantine Speech” Where he calls out for the quarantine of
warring and imperialist nations (he didn’t name names). He got a lot of Backlash for suggesting
the US do something about imperialism, so he backed down FAST.
Munich Conference 695 A Meeting between Hitler and France and Britain in order to prevent
Hitler from invading Czechoslovikia. Hitler aimed to invade there because he wanted
“lebensraum” (living space) for the German people or something. SO France and Britian agreed
to give him that land through appeasement, and told Hitler very politely “please do not invade
other places now that we gave you Czechoslovakia.” and Hitler said “ok”
Failure of “Appeasement” 695 Hitler then went on to conquer the rest of Czechoslovakia and
declared his intention to invade Poland. He then signed a nonaggression pact with Russia (who
had been left out of the Munich Conference) and On September 1, 1939, he invaded Poland.
And then WWII started.
Cash-and-Carry 695 Cash and Carry is the US policy that the Allies could buy arms from the US
if they pay in cash and ship the weapons themselves.
Fall of France 697 France is Invaded in 1940 and On June 22, France gets swept and Paris
gets captured. (somebody add more im getting tired) Many fled, including the Brits at Dunkirk. If

[PAGE 198]
anyone hasn’t watched Dunkirk (the movie), basically, a bunch of civilian and military boats go
from Britain to France to rescue a bunch of British soldiers and bring them home.
Shifting Public Opinion 698 Before France got rekt, many Americans did not see Germany as a
valid threat that could actually win. However now, people were more aware that Germany could
actually threaten the United States, and more people were approving of FDR sending support to
the Allies.
America First Committee 698 However at the same time, The America First Committee was
established, which was a group of people that wanted to support Isolationism. The group was
full of rich and powerful people, and also a lot of racists and were very anti-semetic.
Wendell Willkie 699 FDR’s second term was reaching its end, but he didn’t withdraw, so the
Democrats ended up nominating him again. His opponent was Wendell Wilkie, a guy with
similar positions and was a pretty popular guy, but he lost to FDR, who was then elected for the
3rd time.
Lend-Lease 699 On March of 1941, Roosevelt decided to stop being Neutral, and actively
started helping the Allies by leasing weapons to America’s allies on the basis of giving them
back or paying for them after the war by passing the Lend Lease Act . Isolationists didn’t like this
policy, but it passed with wide margins.
Germany Invades USSR 699 So remember how Russia and Germany signed that
Non-Aggression Pact earlier? Well, uh… yeah Hitler invaded Russia and hit them HARD. As this
is going on, FDR is trying to become an ally for Stalin by extending the Lend-Lease to Russia as
well. THis made Germany begin to target the US, as the US is now supporting Germany’s
enemies on two different fronts.
Atlantic Charter 699 The Atlantic Charter was a document released after a meeting between
FDR and Winston Churchill. The two created a document which set out common principles on
which a post-war world could be based on. It also very very subtly called for the destruction of
the Nazis.
Here’s what it called for:
No territorial expansion, people choosing their own gov, free trade/economic cooperation
between nations, freedom of ship travel, disarmament of aggressive nations and more peace .
Tripartite Pact 700 The Tripartite Pact was an agreement between Germany, Italy, and Japan.
So basically it brought the Japanese into the Axis powers. This made the US even more
antagonistic to Japan, and FDR froze all Japanese Assets in the US and established a full
embargo against Japan (trade ban).
Tokyo’s Decision for War 701 Tokyo needed gas, and also the US was not expecting an attack
on their Pacific Naval Bases until Japan went for the closer Dutch and British Pacific Islands so
Japan planned an attack on Hawaii… (someone add more to this one) but US planners decided

[PAGE 199]
to pay more attention to a large convoy moving in the China sea. It was a combination of
confusion and miscalculations that eventually led too… (look below)
Pearl Harbor 701 At 7:55 On Sunday December 7 1941, Japanese bombers attacked the
Hawaiian Naval Base at Pearl Harbor, catching pretty much everyone off guard. ( they had
evident signs that the japanese were going to attack soon but decided to ignore them assuming
they might attack the philipines or the harbor later in the future) This led to the loss of 8
battleships, 3 cruisers, a bunch of other ships and planes, and 2000 deaths. American forces in
the Pacific were greatly weakened. And also Japan’s allies declared war on the US.
America United 705 So before this point, people were not that up for fighting another war
(remember the America First Party and stuff?). But after Pearl Harbor, people were itchin for a
war to be fought. Recruitment into the army skyrocketed, and the US was officially involved in
WWII.
Midway 705 One of the main turning points of the Pacific Theater. The battle of Midway Island
was a hard fight for both sides but the US turned out victorious in the end. More importantly this
was a naval battle where the US took out 4 Japanese aircraft carriers while only losing one of
their own.
Guadalcanal 705 Once the Pacific Theater started to turn in favor of the Americans, the US
started attacking the Solomon Islands, attacking Gavatu, Tulagi and Guadalcanal. Guadalcanal
in particular was especially violent and took 6 months to take, but eventually the US did take the
islands.
Stalingrad 707 The bloodiest battle in the entirety of WWII, Joseph Stalin ordered all citizens in
Stalingrad to stay behind to defend the city. On the flip side, Hitler refused to let up his offense
on the city, leading to a casualty count of over 2.2 million. In the end, the Soviets luckily won
such a battle and Hitler’s offense into Russia was stopped.
Dispute over Second Front 708 somebody that isn’t me do this one I don’t get it at all okay so
basically the US and UK were slow to cross/invade mainland europe. This makes other leaders
think that they were purposely doing this to allow the Russians to take the brunt of the
fighting(US and UK wanting to have less casualties).
Yeah basically Russia was doing all the fighting and dying, and was mad because the US and
UK were taking too long to invade France.
US and UK were baiting Russia to steal kills and the win at the end
Official Anti-Semitism 709 The St Louis was a ship carrying nearly a thousand Jewish refugees
fleeing from Europe to go to the US. However, the US, Cuba and Canada turned back this ship,
and this was for no other reason other than because the State Department was FILLED with
anti-semitists who refused to even look at a lot of the Visas that a lot of Jewish people carried
with them, including those on the St. Louis.

[PAGE 200]
War-Induced Economic Recovery 709 WWII for Americans was the final push out of the Great
Depression. It created jobs for millions of Americans and helped the economy bounce back.
Union Gains 712 Ironically enough, WWII was so successful in helping the US economy that
just a decade ago what was once an unemployment pandemic had become a labor
shortage(meaning not enough people to work the given jobs) because of how many men and
women were employed to work in the military (over 15 million). As such, Union membership
rose from 10 to 13 million in just 4 years between 1941-1945. The government then issued a
limit on how much wage increases for workers could be (15% max), but also issued a guarantee
that new employees would be automatically enrolled into unions. This was overall negative for
the American Unions, and many Americans went on strike.
Office of Price Administration 712 Government passed the Anti-Inflation Act which gave the
government a LOT of control over the economy, giving them the power to freeze prices, wages,
and rent anywhere in the country. The act was to be enforced by the Office of Price
Administrations. This helped the US economy not enter a state of inflation similar to that of WWI
in WWII, but for obvious reasons was not entirely popular with the general populace. After all,
nobody wants to get their wages frozen.
War Production Board 713 War Production Board was an organization that was pressured by
the public to be formed by the president. It would handle wartime economic growth and had
similar power to the War Industries Board in WWI. The WPB was pretty shit at its job and
couldn’t really get anything to work, but luckily for the US, the economy was fine without the
WPB’s help.
National Defense Research Committee 713 Government created the NDRC, led by MIT
scientist Vannevar Bush for military research and development because Axis powers had much
more technologically advanced weapons (U boat) ((submarine)) . By the end of the war, the
government spent over $100 million on research.
Radar and Sonar 713 The new advancements of sonar allows the US and UK to destroy
german U-boats much much easier
Ultra 714 Ultra Refers to Britain’s code breaking program that was tasked with deciphering c
oded messages sent by the Japanese and Germans using the Enigma. Alan Turing basically
was the guy who carried out the whole operation, but the guy is gay so he gets no awards or
anything :(
The British government’s refusal to treat the LGBTQ+ community better also resulted in his
suicide :( what a way to treat a war hero.
Magic 715 (bro wtf) In the Harry Potter lore, there’s this guy named Grindelwald or whatever the fuck his name was wanted
to kill every non magical person to stop WWII from happening. He was also Dumbledore’s boyfriend or something as well. Man the
harry potter series is wack. Rick Riordan sweep fr fr. Grindelwald sounds like Geto from JJK. Geto wants to kill all non-sorcerers

[PAGE 201]
because normal humans release cursed energy without control causing the birth of curses. Is that the guy who keeps on saying
monkeys in that one video isaiah kept on showing us yeah hes like “stupid monkeys”
In reality, Magic was an American program similar to Ultra, that was tasked with breaking the
Japanese code called Purple (what.). Yeah they did their job and found out about Pearl Harbor
beforehand, but apparently Higher ups in the military were like “hahaha yeah right lmao” until it
happened.
FEPC 715 The FEPC or the Fair Employment Practices Commission was created to investigate
discrimination in war industries. It didn’t really have the power to enforce anything, but it was
one of the first times African Americans were able to get something changed in the US
government.
CORE 715 The Core or the Congress of Racial Equality was an African American group that
fought against discrimination in American Society. They often organized sit-ins and protests in
segregated places. These guys were basically the precursor to the Civil Rights movement.
“Code Talkers” 716 Many Navajo Americans were recruited to work as Code Talkers, conveying
important messages across radio using their native language. The idea was that basically
nobody outside of the US would really know what the Navajo Language was, and therefore
using it would make communication more secure.
like, think about it who tf in japan is gonna know how to speak Navajo?
Employment Gains for Mexican Americans 716 Since everyone was busy fighting the war, large
amounts of Mexicans were brought in with the bracero program, letting Mexican citizens go to
the US to farm crops. These Bracers weren’t paid well, but they WERE employed and many of
them served in the army and stuff.
Zoot-Suit Riots 716 So many Mexican Americans in LA like wearing Zoot Suits, which kinda
look like the 1800s oil baron type fit. Or that one guy who looks like he is wonkamaxxing. Many
white people didn’t like the suits (or the Mexican Americans), and discriminated against them.
This all culminated when some white sailors decided to jump people wearing Zoot Suits, leading
to a whole race riot thing, where many Mexican Americans were arrested. Afterward, the military
banned all sailors for fucking around in LA, and also zoot suits were banned.
Just looked up Zoot Suits, they’re so drippy what the fuck. LOOK AT IT. We should go to school
one day wearing these.
Dramatic Increase in Female Employment 716 Also because people are fighting the war, a lot of
Women are hired These women often replaced men in more industrial jobs that women weren’t
usually seen in at this point in time. However, there is also still racism so Black women are paid
less and all that.

[PAGE 202]
Rosie the Riveter 717 Rosie the Riveter is a piece of propaganda that tried to get women to
work industrial jobs and symbolized the importance of Women in industry. WOmen workers
would often join unions, and also many working mothers were a thing now.
Limited Child Care 717 So a lot of mothers were working, which means there were a lot of
unattended children. Despite government efforts to get child care facilities, many women often
left their kids at home alone, or in the CARS IN THE PARKING LOT DAMN BRUH.
This led to a massive increase in teenage crime, and a lot more teenage prostitutes (what the
fuck book??????)
Beginning of the “Baby Boom” 717 During the war, there were a lot of marriages, but a lot of
these marriages ended in divorce.
(someone add more) Basically because so many people were overjoyed (and frankly just really
horny) that their spouses came home from war, they fucked. I don’t know what else you want
me to say.
Economic Good Times 718 Despite the war going on, American home life was pretty good since
the economy was booming. Movies and Magazines were more popular, and people started
going to casinos and0 stuff.
Fighting for Future Prosperity 719 Americans and American Propaganda often spreaded the
idea that WWII was being fought for the future generations to have a safer, democratic, future.
USO 720
So in Yakuza 0, Goro Majima runs a cabaret club, which is basically a club where Japanese businessmen go to talk to women who are being paid to talk to
them. And also the women are being paid to convince said businessmen to buy overpriced alcohol.
So basically a USO was a traveling group that served in cabaret clubs that traveled around
America and talked to lonely men on military bases. They were expected to talk to the men at
whatever base they were at, and then never see them again afterward.
The Section also talks about how all gay people were kicked out of the army dishonorably, but i
guess that’s only worth one sentence.
Ethnic Distinctions Blurred 720 During WWII, Americans were overall less racist, kinda. The
book says that if you ignore all the racial riots like the zoot suit riots, then America was a very
accepting place.
Well technically it was, Americans didn’t really have problems with German or Italian
Americans, and saw them more as people who fell for propaganda.

[PAGE 203]
For LITERALLY EVERYONE ELSE (minus the chinese i guess for this bit at least) it was
because of the war and participation of different ethnic backgrounds in the war that really made
diversity more healthy .
Anti-Japanese Prejudice 720 Yeah since Japan bombed Pearl Harbor, the average white
American during this time saw the Japanese as like, terrorists or something. People started
accusing Japanese Americans of sabotage and started harassing them. Early government
reports stated that the Japanese Americans weren’t responsible for sabotage, but then some
fucker named Frank Knox said “uh I think that we should deal with all the japanese people in
America” and wow look at that US government policy.
Also important for this section are the terms issei and nisei
Issei is basically like first generation immigrants (born in Japan, moved to US)
Nisei are second generation immigrants (born in US, parents born in Japan)
“Relocation Centers” 721 Under Executive Order 9066, The Japanese Americans in California
and western states were sent to Internment Camps. Over 100,000 people were sent to these
camps that were mostly in the midwest. While not inhumane per se, these camps were definitely
not good or comfortable at all.
People in these camps were often used as laborers, and also they were subjected to
“Americanization” whatever that means…
Also like all Japanese people sent to these camps lost all their property and businesses. That’s
fun.
No bad words guys !
Korematsu v. U.S. 721 Fred Korematsu is a Japanese man but an American citizen and resists
the japanese internment when he gets arrested. He brings his case further into higher courts
until he brings his case to the supreme court where they're like “yup this is fine don't see
anything wrong” and determined that internment of Japanese citizens was constitutional. Later
that year it was determined illegal to intern “loyal” citizens.
Chinese Exclusion Act 721 So since everyone was hating on Japan, and since the Japanese
were Invading and also like pillaging China, people suddenly became a lot more sympathetic
towards the Chinese. Chinese also worked a lot in factories and helped stop labor shortages.
Also 22% of Chinese males were drafted for the war.
And the Chinese Exclusion Act was repealed. Probably should have mentioned that.
Dismantling the New Deal 722 The New deal was great and all, but during the war FDR
focused less on reforms and more on not losing the war. This led to a lot of the relief programs
like the CCC going away, and FDR let it happen so he could continue having support for the
war.

[PAGE 204]
1944 Election 722 FDR is sick as hell right now, but uh, he won again. yeah.
Strategic Bombing 722 To tactically and strategically win the war, the US and British used some
Fuze from Rainbow 6 Siege tactics of bombing everything, including the civilians and hostages.
German Cities like Leipzig, Dresden, and Verlin were raided from the air, creating massive
firestorms that killed like 135000, which is a lot of people.
D-Day 722 Because Germany was demoralized by all the bombings, the US and Britain finally
decide to retake France on June 6 1944. 3 million troops are sent to France, and they show up
where Germany doesn’t expect them, leading to an intense battle where Germany is slowly
pushed back over the course of weeks. (did you know that during D-Day, we had to partially
flood the USS Texas in order to get more range from their cannons)
Battle of the Bulge 723 hehe The allied drive came to a halt at the Rhine River against a firm
line of German defenses and bad weather. In mid-December, German forces attacked along fifty
miles of front in the Ardennes Forest. In the Battle of the Bulge, the Germans drove fifty-five
miles toward Antwerp before they were finally stopped at Bastogne.
Germany Defeated 724 On April 30th, Hitler went out like a little bitch (which every nazi should
do as well :3) and the remaining German forces surrendered on May 8th.
Battle of the Leyte Gulf 725 After Germany Surrenders, the US has still gotta deal with Japan. In
Leyte Island in the Philippines, the US dunks on Japan HARD and basically destroys their entire
naval fleet. This gold lead lets the US snowball into taking Iwo Jima, where both sides take
pretty big losses but the US is bigger so like Japan is still losing hard.
Also Iwo Jima is that famous flag photo everyone is probably using for their blackout poems
(unoriginal little shits) . Neat!
Okinawa 725 The Battle for Okinawa was another sign that Japan was eventually gonna lose,
but also a sign that Japan was willing to fight until the end. The Japanese used a lot of
Kamikaze planes and also tried their best to stop the American push, but they failed and
100,000 Japanese soldiers died. Now Japan is like extra fucked because they have no PLANES
or SHIPS pretty much.
The US fire bombs Tokyo killing another 100,000, but Japan is still trying to fight it out.
Enrico Fermi 726 The guy who discovered radioactivity, which made the construction of atomic
weapons feasible. In 1939, a Danish physicist leaked news of German experiments on
radioactivity to the US and got the US started on making atomic weapons. (a clever reference to
how fermium is the coolest element name ever)
The Trinity Bomb 727 In New Mexico, Oppenheimer and a bunch of other scientists have
developed a BOMB that uses nuclear chain reactions to make the bomb go BOOM extra big.

[PAGE 205]
On July 16 1945, Oppenheimer tested the bomb and the first atomic explosion happened. It
wipes out a lot of land, and unfortunately for the other people living nearby, the government
doesn’t really do anything about the whole radiation thing.
Debating of the Bomb’s Use 727 This point is more retrospective than actual historical event
stuff, but the usage of the Atomic Bomb on Japan (twice) was and is heavily debated.
The main arguing points are
● Should the bomb have been used
○ Some argued that Japan was not going to surrender unless something really big
happened, and that the moderates in Japan that wanted to surrender didn’t even
have the power to do so anyway. Japan’s whole imperialistic track record didn’t
do anyone favors, and the kamikazes also implanted the idea that Japan would
fight until the end at any cost. Also the people in this group tended to argue that
the usage of the bomb would prevent a costly invasion of the entirety of Japan.
○ The other group of people were scared about the repercussions of using such a
massive weapon, fearing the aftermath and political repercussions on using the
bomb. I would say more but the book really didn’t add much else.
● Why was the bomb really used (cold war politics?)
○ Some argue that Truman wanted to use the bomb to end the war quickly by
forcing the Japanese to give up
○ While others argue it was more of a show of power to Russia, and to intimidate
Stalin.
Well whatever the reasoning really was, On the record Truman pretty much wrote that he had a
bomb that could win the war right then, so he used it.
Apparently the guy didn’t even know about the bomb until he entered office.
Hiroshima/Nagasaki 729
On August 6 1945, the plane Enola Gay Dropped an atomic bomb on Hiroshima, wiping out 4
square miles and killing 80,000.
Japan was so shocked by what had happened, that some people were in denial and basically
the government was freaking out too much to give a response,
On August 8, Another bomb was dropped on Nagasaki, killing more than 100,000.
This led to the Japanese Emperor giving up and announcing surrender on August 14. The
surrender was officiated on September 2 1945 on the American battleship Missouri .
And so WWII comes to an end. About 14 million soldiers had died, and around 40 million
Civilians had died too.
The US overall didn’t suffer as much as the others, with about 322,000 dead and 800,000
injured.

[PAGE 206]
Not everything was peaceful though, because the usage of the Atomic Bombs would lead to a
whole thing in world politics…
And also the cold war happened.
READING QUIZ#6 INFO ENDS HERE
READING QUIZ#7 INFO STARTS HERE
Period 8 Starts Here
Cold War next!
Surprised that the textbook doesn’t include the Tuskegee Airmen or the 442nd considering their
accomplishments
Yeah because this book is famously good at respecting minority groups.
America’s Postwar vision 733 The main thing that caused the Cold War was the difference in
vision for the US and Soviet Union. The US wanted a world where nations abandoned their
beliefs in alliances and Spheres of influence and used democracy to do stuff.
Spheres of Influence 733 AP WORLD REFERENCE??? SPheres of Influence are basically the
idea that bigger nations exert their influence over smaller nations, through political ideology or
like, economic power and stuff.
Dispute over Poland 734 Roosevelt and Churchill wanted to give Poland their own government,
while Stalin wanted to install a communist government. This whole dispute was going on while
FDR was alive adn the war was going on.
United Nations 734 League of Nations? No more. Now we got the UNITED NATIONS
established during the Yalta Conference, it established 5 permanent members (US, Britain,
Fr*nce, Russia, China) with veto power and delegates from many other nations. The UN Charter
was written in San Francisco on April 25 1945, and was ratified.
Other than that, the Yalta conference didn’t really do much, everyone was fighting over what
happens to Germany.

[PAGE 207]
Disagreements over Germany735 Stalin wanted (more) reparations and a complete arms ban
on Germany, While Roosevelt wanted a united and not economically crippled Germany.
Eventually the decision was made to split Germany up into occupied zones which would be
united eventually (trust).
Truman’s Get Tough Policy 735 Truman didn’t like the Soviet Union, so he wanted to get tough
and like, not really bend too much to Russian demands for Germany. So the ending result is that
America, France, and Britain refused to let Russia collect reparations from their part of Germany
through the “Get Tough” policy.
Chiang Kai Shek 735 Chiang Kai Shek was the leader of the Guo Ming Dang party in China, the
Democratic party in China. The US was allied with Chiang and as such were pitted against Mao
Ze Dong’s eventual CCP. A large domestic pressure was made in the US to either
accommodate Mao or come to some sort of agreement with him, but president Truman believed
that the US was a little too committed to pull away from siding with the Guo Ming Dang
(sunk-cost I guess).
Restoring Japan 736 After the US promptly killed 200 thousand innocent Japanese civilians with
the drop of the 2 atoms along with their campaign in attacking Japan, Japan was left a wreck
with very little financial support. Since the US was the ones who caused such a wreck, it was
really their responsibility to rebuild Japan. However, as we know, the US wanted this so that 1.
Japan would be in debt to the US 2. Now the US has an ally in Asia.
Truman Doctrine 737 Truman’s declared policy of containing communist/USSr influence. He
declared a long term and patient containment of Russian Expansive tendencies. Furthermore,
this program gave military stuff to countries like Greece and Turkey to prevent Communism from
spreading.
Rebuilding Europe 737 The US was scared that some of the EU countries would be an
economic drain to the US economy and also that these pro-US gov.s would become communist,
sooooooo secretary of state George C. Marshall instated the Marshall Plan. To give money to
euro countries(besides Soviets). The Soviet satellite states also rejected this help.
National Security Act of 1947 738 The national security act reworked the nation's military and
diplomatic institutions. This combines some of the functions of the army and navy This results in
the creation of the National Security Council(NSC) and the Central Intelligence Agency(CIA).
NATO 740 Due to the increasing tension caused by the US between West and East Germany,
12 nations agreed to establish NATO, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization which was an
alliance that made it so that the involved countries would be forced to help one another if war
were to break out. This organization was met by the USSR with their formation of the Warsaw
Pact which was the exact same thing, just with a different set of nations.

[PAGE 208]
NSC 68 740 The NCS is the National Security Council. NSC-68, which was the National
Security Council in 1950 was important because of the contents in it, in which the US declared
that no longer would they want other nations to be responsible for the “containment” of
communism, urging for the US to be the one who takes initiative in the act.
Syngman Rhee 745 Korea, after the occupation of Japan had become a country divided into 2
halves, with a Soviet supported North and a US supported South. In 1949, the Soviets left
Korea to let North Korea handle themselves ,while the US left a couple months afterward,
handing control of the government to Syngman Rhee, a pro-US administration.
Liberation 745 Remember NSC-68? This is coming up again. NSC-68 is the policy that made
the US’s stance in foreign policy that of intervention. After the invasion of South Korea by the
North due to the lack of a strong military (Syngman Rhee did not have a big military), General
Douglas MacArthur, appointed by President Truman, was sent into the Korean Peninsula to help
South Korea. After taking back the ground that South Korea had lost, the US then went on a
mission of “liberation” in their words, forcing the North even higher north of the 38th parallel.
Truman Macarthur Controversy 745 General MacArthur was a general (hmm) and also a pretty
popular guy. He believed that the US should escalate the Korean War by attacking China to
prevent them from supporting North Korea. However, Truman didn’t want to start WWIII, and
fired MacArthur when he wouldn’t shut the fuck up about nuking China. However, MacArthur
was a popular guy, so by firing him Truman pretty much ruined his entire political career and
chance at further elections.
Wartime Economic Regulation 746 During the Korean War, the Office of Defense Mobilization
was set up to fight inflation by setting prices and discouraging Unions from asking for higher
wages. This didn’t work too well, so the president seized the railroads when they weren't on
Strike. Eventually Truman had to cave in to Union Demands.
The Korean War boosted the economy, but it also had the side effect of making people really
really really polarized against communism…
Economic Benefits of Massive Retaliation 776 John Foster Dulles was a corporate lawyer that
really really hated communism. He argued for the US to fight actively against communism in a
policy called “Massive Retaliation”. This meant that the US would use nuclear weapons to
threaten countries to not be communist. This led to a lot more government spending on
weapons, leading to more money in the economy I guess. it also would save money because
why fund army when have big bomb
DIen Bien Phu 776 The French colony of Vietnam was undergoing a communist Revolution due
to some Ho Chi Minh guy, so some wanted the US to intervene. However, they didn;t. What the
fuck is Dien Bien Phu??? IDK the book doesn't even mention the term. Note: Dien Bien Phu is
the battle that ended French colonial rule in Vietnam

[PAGE 209]
Recognizing Israel 777 On May 14 1948, after a lot of Zionist Efforts, the UN decided to
recognize Israel as its own thing. However, a lot of Palestinians were not too happy with their
land being considered some new country, leading to a lot of conflict and several wars over the
land that was disputed.
Suez Crisis 777 The US was dedicated to Israel, but it also needed to keep on good terms with
the oil rich Middle Eastern Countries, on which many American Industries relied on. This led to
the CIA helping stage a coup in Iran when the prime minister started acting less kindly to
American Corporations.
Why is this important? IDK but its here so i’ll put it here.
Well in Egypt, the leader of Egypt started trading with the USSR, leading to the US deciding to
not help Egypt build a Dam across the Nile. THis led to the Egyptian leader Gamal Abdel
Nasser Capturing the Suez Canal and saying he’ll tax the canal to pay for the dam.
And then Israel attacked Egypt for some reason, leading to a big ol fight over the Suez Canal
Between the British and French and Egyptians. The US didn’t want to start a fight with the USSr,
so they used the UN to convince Britain and France to withdraw and get Israel and Egypt to get
along.
This whole thing is a clusterfuck and the book is terrible with its pacing
Fidel Castro 777 So at this point, Cuba is still under the control of the US pretty much, due to
the crippling power of the American Corporations that are controlling the economy. This led to a
rebellion led by Fidel Castro to overthrow the US backed Dictator Fulgencio Batista. Castro then
implemented land reforms and limited the power of foreign (AMERICAN) corporations. When
the US began to embargo Cuba, they sought the USSR as an ally, and then they were allies
because they both hate the US.
Hungarian Revolution of 1956 778 Hungary had a revolution for democratic reforms, and then
the USSR pulled up to take advantage of the chaos and implement a communist government.
That’s it.
And Eisenhower did not intervene.
U2 CONTROVERSY (not mentioned) In the book, has its own segment
So basically the USSR and US were gonna have a diplomatic meeting in the summer of 1960
when a US U2 spy plane got caught lacking and was shot down by the USSR weeks before the
meeting. This led to a lot of tension and the meeting being called off.
So why is this important?
Well, the meeting was between Eisenhower and Khrushchev (Prime Minister of USSR)
So this wasn’t a good look for ol’ Eisenhower.

[PAGE 210]
Eisenhower’s Restraint 779 Eisenhower overall was a very conservative guy when it came to
intervening in the rise of communist governments. He realized that any real action by the US
against Communism would lead to a big war, and decided to not really intervene in anything.
In his farewell address, Eisenhower would warn against the “military industrial complex” and
“unwarranted influence” over other nations. However, his successors would market themselves
on being tough against communism.
GI Bill 741 The GI Bill was a bill which would serve as economic and educational assistance to
WWII veterans, it was successful in helping many soldiers who had lost a portion of their most
important years (years where they should have been in college) in readjusting to civilian life.
This most importantly, helped with curtailing the labor shortages that once followed recently
ended wars. The big thing (according to Hunneke) that we learned in class is (and you should
definitely know this too): It helped establish a STRONG MIDDLE CLASS.
Summary of stuff it did in addition to the thingy I said up top:
- Home loans
- Loans for starting small businesses
- Free college
Postwar Labor Unrest 741 Still even with the GI Bill, many people faced economic difficulties
especially in the manufacturing department where a bunch of products were cut out of the
market (all factories were turned into military factories), and as such inflation soared as well
because the US bought so much from these factories. Because of this, many industries went on
strike, including Electric, Steel, and Coal.
Truman”s Fair Deal 742 After the surrender of Japan, Truman submitted his 21 point Fair Deal
program to Congress. This would expand Social Security, raise the minimum wage by over
50%, and help with unemployment through rigorous government spending. In addition, he also
argued for a public housing and environmental project, and the government promoted scientific
research. Most important of all: national health insurance. The Fair Deal went into motion, and
although its intentions were good, the Fair Deal was stopped by conservatives who were very
absolute on lowering government spending, meaning that the Fair Deal had less money to work
with.
TLDR: Truman proposes the Fair Deal, which is New Deal 2.0 but with some more added
benefits but conservatives don’t like spending government money so the deal doesn’t go
through.
Taft Hartley Act 742 Senator Robert Taft was a Republican Conservative in Congress who was
a big big supporter of the less government spending thing. He advised congress to spend less

[PAGE 211]
funds to aid education or to increase wages and all of the good stuff that the majority of the US
needed. You remember the Wagner Act, yeah, the one that gave workers the right to unionize
and also real power? Well Conservatives REALLY did not like that one Act and they lobbied
HARD to get rid of it. Although they couldn’t get it overturned, Conservatives managed to get
the Taft-Hartley Act, which would make it ILLEGAL to require newly hired workers to join unions.
Democratic Defections 742 CRAZY term name btw. Truman was still very set on keeping the
New Deal going, or at least the dream of it. Truman was known for his eagerness to take action
and to make new reforms, which made him very unpopular with the conservatives and due to
the perception that his administration was weak, the Democratic party as well did not respect
him. Notably, 2 subparties left, Southern Conservatives and a new Progressive Party were
started in the Democratic party, leading to a loss in supporters for Truman.
Truman’s Surprising Victory 743 Truman was expected to get his ass kicked HARD by
republican Thomas E Dewey. However, Dewey kind of didn’t campaign much? And also Truman
went HARD on showing the people how the Republicans “did nothing and were good for
nothing”, proving his point by challenging the Republican Congress to implement all the
changes that they called for in 2 weeks. They did nothing, point proven. So Truman ends up
winning the election pretty closely.
Truman Stymied 744 Truman wanted to continue the Fair deal, which was a continuation of the
New Deal. However, Congress didn’t accept many of his changes, such as National health
insurance or anti Lynching laws.
Conflicting Views Of Nuclear Power 744 The Power seen by the nuclear bombs that were
dropped in Japan led to many different views on Nuclear Power. Many people feared nuclear
war with the USSR, but others saw Nuclear power as a source of cheap and clean energy.
The Fear people had of Nuclear Power was often seen in Media, with the Noir genre of movie
becoming popular, and the TWILIGHT ZONE, a show that often told stories that were based on
the aftermath or impact of Nuclear War, or of fear of communism and stuff like that.
“He’s Alive!” Goes hard W Episode btw.
Promise of Cheap Nuclear Power 744 Many people saw the potential of Nuclear Power
benefitting society, and apparently some poll said that about 66% of Americans who took the
poll thought Nuclear Power would end up benefiting society eventually.
Sources of the Red Scare 747 The Red Scare (the sequel) would reach it’s peak of red and
scaring at this point in the 1950s. One reason why is because Communism had a tangible face
and ideology through the USSR and Stalin. In addition, the US had been (kinda failing?) to
contain communism at this point, with China becoming communist and the Korean War not
going too well. People started fearing that Communism had taken root in the country.

[PAGE 212]
And uh some people got caught spying for the USSR. Pretty high ranking people too. That
might cause some public unrest…
Bonus Term yippee! HUAC the HUAC stands for the House Un-American Activities Committee
whose primary purpose was to publicize investigations to prove that the US government had
been allowing communism throughout the US, specifically in industries such as Hollywood.
Alger Hiss 748 Alger Hiss was a member of the State Department that was revealed to have
given classified information to the USSR. Whittaker Chambers showed off evidence called the
Pumpkin Papers (because he hid the evidence in a pumpkin to prevent it from being
destroyed) and uh it really showed that Hiss did in fact give away documents. However blah
blah blah it’s been too long to actually prosecute so he’s only arrested because of public outrage
and some Richard Nixon guy. The effects of the Alger Hiss case would end up trickling down to
the Democrat Party and the US as a whole, as people feared what other important government
departments were controlled by the COMMIES.
The McCarran Internal Security Act 748 The Truman administration in order to keep the US
citizens not super scared of spooky communism had a program where they would review the
loyalty of federal employees. J Edgar Hoover, the director of the FBI was one of these people
who investigated government employees, and in 1950 the McCarran Internal Security Act was
passed which would require all communist organizations to register under the government.
Truman vetoed it, and Congress then passsed it. I have genuinely no clue how this would work
but whatever.
Another name for this act is: “Subversive activities control act”.
Anticommunist Hysteria 749 Yeah. people did not like communism or communism adjacent
things. And a bunch of high ranking government officials caught being Communist Spies did not
in fact help the public image of communism. Basically people started to fear communism and
became fervently ANTIcommunist. And also also people feared being seen as Communist,
which basically led to one hell of a public landscape.
McCarthyism's Appeal 749 Oh boy we are getting to big McCarthy now. Joseph McCarthy was a
Republican senator from Wisconsin who made a big fuss about a sheet of paper he was holding
of 205 communists in the US State department. This spread mass hysteria amongst the US
since this was heavily publicized, and also his position as a senator made it very serious when
such an accusation was made. McCarthy then went on a RAMPAGE accusing just about
anybody of communism. People of all different backgrounds were put under scrutiny. If your
ethnicity was one that was “associated” with communism, Russian, Chinese, Etc, you were
probably seen as a communist. During this time of fear, you could be locked up, out of a job, or
put down as a criminal just for holding any sort of trait that could be associated with
communism.
Dwight Eisenhower 749 Dwight D Eisenhower was the next president in line after Truman’s loss
in office. After all, nobody wanted Robert Taft or Douglass MacArthur in office. Richard Nixon

[PAGE 213]
was his running mate. Dwight made it clear that his number one priority was to settle the conflict
in Korea, and Nixon on the other hand went on the offensive, attacking Democrats and became
a people pleaser for conservative Republicans. Eisenhower won the election, ending a 20 year
period of Democrat Presidents.
Goverment Spending 754 During the period up from WWII’s end to the 1960s, the US
experienced an economic boom of GDP growth of 250%, unemployment rates drilled into the
floor from 15% to 5%, and inflation was barely above 3% a year. As such, the government used
a bunch of this new money to build infrastructure. Schools were built, veterans got welfare, and
highways were sprouting up like weeds. Far and away however, was the growth of the military.
The US was gearing up for a possible war between the US and the USSR, and as such they
would enter such an arms race.
Suburban Grown 754 Suburbs started sprouting up everywhere, in fact, suburban populations
grew by 47% during the 1950s, and helped the economy grow due to the drastically large
middle class. Car purchases doubled, and American suburban life as we know it was born. One
important thing to note though was the Black Americans were almost never allowed into
suburban communities.
Favorable Climate 755 Warmer places like California Nevada and Arizona were a lot warmer
and drier, leading to more migrants West. LA in particular grew by an insane amount, with a
50% population rise from 1940-1960.
Keynesian Economics 755 Keynesian Economics was founded by this British guy named John
Keynes in the early 1920s which basically said that the government should step in to help the
economy. For example, the US handed out 1k a month to families during Covid, or China made
EV car ownership benefits to stimulate economic growth in the EV industry. Keynesian
Economics picked up steam during this time.
Ending Poverty Through Economic Growth 756 The idea was that with economic growth, the
rich would not have to “sacrifice in order to eliminate poverty”, and the nation would have a lot of
stuff to raise quality of life. I think what they’re trying to say with the rich is that the rich, with
more money, can afford to spend more money helping the poor? I don’t really get it the textbook
is kind of talking in riddles right now.
Corporate Consolidation 756 In the 1950s, a TON of corporations merged together. This was
happening because large corporations had more money to buy up smaller companies. As a
result, monopolies grew in the US, the rich got richer, and the poor got poorer. This was both
true for employees and corporations, as corporations were eager to keep workers happy in
order to keep them working, after all, strikes meant loss in profits.
The Postwar Contract 757 The Postwar Contract was a contract between employers and
employees in the 1950s, which would allow workers in manufacturing unions to get more wages
and benefits, and in return unions would basically be forced to shut up about problems.

[PAGE 214]
Basically it was “we have McDonalds at home” but instead it’s Burger King so it’s not
necessarily THAT terrible but still pretty terrible.
AFL CIO 757 The AFL stands for the American Federation of Labor and the CIO stands for the
Congress of Industrial Organizations. Putting aside a conflict that had been going on for 20
years, the 2 orgs decided to merge under the leadership of George Meany. Despite this merge,
tensions were still high and both sides believed the other was up to no good.
You can probably understand their tension: the AFL focused on skilled workers, where they had
many unions per industry and often expelled the unskilled workers to the CIO. For the CIO, they
organized all workers regardless of skill level into one industry. So there was obviously gonna
be some fighting.
Limited Gains for unorganized Workers 758 Unions made big strides in getting more wages and
benefits for workers, but laborers who were not part of unions did not get to partake in a great
deal of these benefits. In addition, the Taft Hartley Act also greatly halted the growth of unions in
the US.
Antibiotics 758 Remember how the US was sponsoring a lot of scientific development? Well
Antibiotics started to pick up steam in Europe in the 1930s, and they soon made their way to the
US. Funny enough, the textbook literally says nothing about how they made it to the US so I’m
literally just assuming.
Penicillin 758 In 1928, Alex Fleming, an English medical researcher discovered penicillin, and
some dudes at Oxford found a way to turn penicillin into a strong antibiotic. During WWII
however, they were unable to continue research on penicillin and instead the US took over the
rest of the procedure, which helped antibiotic science reach the US.
Salk Vaccine 759 Jonas Salk invented a polio vaccine! This was seen as so revolutionary that it
was given out for free by the government. Alber Sabin invented a version of the vaccine taken
via Sugar Cube (WHY DON'T WE HAVE THIS NOW????), so the government was able to
really spread the vaccine around the nation.
This basically eradicated Polio from the US with how widespread and effective the vaccines
were.
Hm. maybe we need some big disease so people remember why vaccines are a good thing.
DDT 759 DDT or dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane C14H9Cl5 was a chemical that was invented
by Paul Muller in 1939. It was a chemical that was very, VERY, good at killing insects, and
SEEMED TO have very little effect on people. DDT was used to cure malaria outbreaks during
WWII, and did a pretty good job at killing mosquitoes and stuff.
And then people found out it gives people cancer and also kills birds so it was banned. Much
later though.

[PAGE 215]
Invention of Television 759 Yeah people made Televisions. In the 1940s and 50s, scientists
developed the technology for televisions using vacuum tubes and Transistors and stuff. Uh idk
why it goes into such detail on how TVS worked?
Basically TVs are a thing and the technology is quickly also used to make the first computers
____________________________________________________________________________
UNIVAC 760 The Universal Automatic Computer is the first computer that could handle both
NUMBERS and LETTERS at the same time!!!! It used tapes storage and like, punch cards to
store information and perform calculations. The First major usage of the UNIVAC (ON
TELEVISION) was to (correctly) predict that Eisenhower would win in a landslide. This
prediction seemed revolutionary to many, and really made people aware about what the hell a
darn computer is.
THe Hydrogen Bomb 760 In 1952, the US made a bigger bomb using Hydrogen. This bomb
was much bigger and more powerful due to using Fusion (putting stuff together) rather than
using Fission (splitting the atom)
In addition to making a bigger bomb, both the US and USSR were working hard to make
automated systems that would fly to the target and blow up without the need for someone to
drop the bomb.
This is also the part where the US recruited Nazi Scientists to make ICBMS and stuff.
The Shock of Sputnik 761 In 1957, the USSR announced they put a thing (satellite named
Sputnik) into space. This led to the US and much of American society becoming obsessed with
space, as they saw this as some massive L or something. The US would throw tons of money at
scientists and also at schools to start teaching science about space and stuff.
The US also created NASA, and they threw people into space and stuff, yadda yadda yadda.
THe Apollo Program 761 The Apollo Program was the main thing NASA was meant for at the
time, as they were able to throw Neil Armstrong, Edwin Aldrin, and Micheal Collins into space
and land on the moon.
NASA then pivoted to the idea of a Space Shuttle, a plane like aircraft that could take off, go to
space, and then land back on the Earth multiple times. The Government really really pushed the
program until in 1986 when the Challenger exploded, killing 7 people including a teacher that
won a raffle.
And they could have killed Big Bird! He was gonna be on the shuttle but they couldn’t
think of a way to get Big Bird onto the Shuttle, which was unfortunately (or fortunately) not
designed for 8'2 birds.

[PAGE 216]
that would have sucked if he died. Big Bird is a better person than at least 30% of the people we
learn about in APUSH.
Consumer Crazes 762 Because marketing was starting to be a thing, there were the first ever
consumer crazes, where people rushed to buy a thing. Like Hula Hoops. And Mickey Mouse
merch! And also Disneyland became a thing because people were marketed disney products so
much. wow.
Interstate highways 763 The Federal Highway Act of 1956 put $25 Billion dollars into building
40,000 miles of highways. This linked together pretty much every state and major city in the US
by road, leading to the decline of the railroad. It also paid for itself through the economic boost
of having a bunch of workers, and also taxes on gas. And like toll booths. And stuff like that.
Levittown 763 We read about this! Suburbs became a thing, and not only were they a source of
housing for many White veterans, they were also racist as fuck. Levittown specifically was a
town that used Mass Produced Houses to quickly make a bunch of houses, and sell them for
cheap. Many people who had assistance through the GI bill were able to buy these houses.
Except for African Americans. They weren’t allowed to buy houses here.
A side effect of that racism was that Urban City Neighborhoods quickly became full of poor
minorities, and Suburbs became the new place for White people to live in White people only
areas.
Prevailing Gender Roles Reinforced 764 During the Suburban Era, there was a huge
conservative push to get Women back into domestic work and cooking and stuff. There was a
huge cultural emphasis on Family life and lots of prejudice against women in the workplace.
Dr Benjamin Spock 764 Dr Benjamin Spock wrote a book called “Baby and Child Care” which
emphasized Child care that would become really really popular in the 50s. He came up with the
revolutionary idea of prioritizing a child’s development over your own needs. He basically said
that parents should help their children grow and become their own people, and that the needs of
the parents should be subordinated to the needs of the Child.
Why are there 3 paragraphs dedicated to this?
Social Consequences of Television 765 Not only did Video kill the radio star, but it also became
the new way people got their Sports, Entertainment, and information. Television was a gold
mine for advertisers and marketers, and televised sports became one of the biggest industries
in America.
Televisions Homogenizing Message 765 howMany TV Shows at the time created a very
common stereotype of American Life with White Middle Class Suburban families where men
worked and women stayed at home and did all the domestic work.

[PAGE 217]
But there were TV shows that differed from this, like the Twilight Zone.
And there were also some racist Ss like Amos ‘n Andy which was pretty much a vaudeville show
on TV.
Yeah imma go on break i need to eat.
Echo Park 766 Echo Park was a valley in the Dinosaur National Monument, it was a place that
became a hot topic in the 1950s. In the early 1950s, the federal government’s Bureau of
Reclamation proposed building a dam across the Green River, which runs through Echo Valley,
to create a lake for recreation and a source of hydroelectric power. This made the American
environmental movement, which had been quiet after its defeat at Hetch Hetchy Valley, come
back from its slumber.
TLDR - Echo Park was a valley in Dinosaur National Monument that became controversial in
the 50s when the gov decided to build a dam on the Green River to implement hydroelectricity
and make a recreational lake. It makes the environmentalists mad, which revives the
environmentalist movement after they got shit on at Hetch Hetchy Valley a while back.
Sierra Club Reborn 766 The Sierra Club, motivated after Bernard DeVoto published an essay
talking about the situation in Echo Park and other National Parks, moved into action. The
controversy helped elevate a new leader, David Brower, who transformed the club into the
nation’s leading environmental organization.
TLDR - The Sierra Club becomes active again after the Echo Park controversy. Led by David
Brower, it transformed the Sierra Club into the nation’s major force in the environmental
movement.
Growth of Specialized Education 766 The American educational system responded to the
demands of this increasingly organized society by experimenting with changes in curriculum
and philosophy. Elementary and secondary schools gave increased attention to the teaching of
science, mathematics, and foreign languages. Universities were expanding their curricula to
provide more opportunities for students to develop specialized skills.
TLDR - In the 50s, schools began focusing on science, math and foreign languages. Colleges
began to teach specialized skills. Also, the AP exams start existing (also the reason why ur
taking this class).
The Beat Generation’s Critiques 767 The most caustic critics of bureaucracy, and of middle
class society, were a group of young poets, writers, and artists generally known as the “beats”.
They wrote harsh critiques of what they considered the sterility and conformity of American life,
the meaninglessness of American politics, and the banality of popular culture.
TLDR - The Beat Generation were a bunch of artists, writers and poets who hated the
consumerism, conformity, pop culture and boringness of middle class America. (basically lost
generation 2.0)
Elvis Presley 768 We all know who Elvis Fucking Presley is. The King of Rock ‘N’ Roll, Elvis
Presley became a symbol of a youthful determination to push at the borders of the conventional
and acceptable. Everything about him was attractive to a young audience, from his looks, his
fashion style, and his music and performances made him extremely popular among young
Americans.

[PAGE 218]
TLDR - Evlis Presley becomes the “King of Rock n’ Roll” and convinces young people to rebel
and challenge traditional societal norms through different fashion, music and style.
Rock N Roll’s Black Roots 768 Presley’s music, like most other early white rock musicians, drew
heavily from black rhythm and blues traditions, which appealed to some white youths. Sam
Phillips, a local record promoter, reported said in the early 1950s: “If I could find a white man
with a Negro sound, I could make a billion dollars.” Soon after, he found Presley.
TLDR - Elvis’s music was actually influenced by African American rhythm and blues. Sam
Philips is credited with bringing that sound to the white audiences.
Payola Scandal 770 Record promoters were so eager to get their songs on the air that some
routinely made secret payments to station owners and disc jockeys to encourage them to
showcase their artists. These payments, which became known as “payola,” produced a brief but
deep series of scandals when they were exposed in the late 50s and 60s.
TLDR - The “Payola” Scandal was when record promoters secretly paid DJs to play certain
songs. These payments were known as “payola” which introduced a series of scandals that
were exposed in the late 50s and 60s. Basically, corruption in the music industry!
THe Other America 770 While the white suburbs looked pretty nice, there was a lot of poverty in
other parts of America. More than 20% of Americans lived below the poverty line, and many
lived barely above the line.
● Persistent Poverty 770 Many African Americans and other minority groups were pretty
much all in poverty. These people often ended up living in Ghetto neighborhoods in
urban areas.
Declining Agricultural prices 770 Farmers are struggling to make ends meet in the 50s. In 1948,
they had received 8.9 percent of the national income, and in 1956, they received only 4.1
percent. This is in part due to the shrinking farm population. In just 1956, almost 10 percent of
the rural population moved into or was absorbed by cities. Also, because of enormous surpluses
in basic stables, prices fell 33 percent in those years.
TLDR - Thanks to the farmer’s population shrinking, farmers are now struggling to make ends
meet. Lots of surpluses from helping WW2 made prices fall and also, the rural population was
absorbed into cities.
Black Urban Migration 771 As white families moved from cities to suburbs, many inner city
neighborhoods became vast repositories for the poor, “ghettos” from which there was no easy
escape. The growth of these neighborhoods owed much to a vast migration of African
Americans out of the countryside and into industrial cities. More than 3 million black men and
women moved from the South to northern cities between 1940 and 1960. Similar migrations
from Mexico and Puerto Rico expanded poor Hispanic neighborhoods at the same time.
Urban Renewal 772 Urban Renewal was the long standing policy that was used in cities to help
the poorest areas. Rotting buildings would be torn down and during this time after WWII, over
400,000 buildings were torn down, displacing 1.5 million people as a result. Urban Renewal
turned from that into a form of rehousing for poor residents due to this mass amount of people
losing their homes from a project that was supposed to help them. Unfortunately due to the

[PAGE 219]
sporadic nature of these buildings being built, the buildings ended up often becoming slums and
heavily damaged.
Buisness Leaders NEw Outlook 774 Now that 20 years of Democrat presidents had passed, the
Republican party took hold and with it came it’s administration full of: businessmen. However,
unlike our old friends Andrew Carnegie and Co., these guys believed a little bit in helping other
people out, no way!
Federal Highway Act of 1956 The Federal Highway Act authorized 25 billion dollars for a ten
year project that built over 40,000 miles of interstate highways, the largest public works project
in American history. The program was to be funded through a highway “trust fund,” whose
revenues would come from new taxes on the purchase of fuel, automobiles, trucks, and tires.
Army McCarthy Hearings 775 Y’all remember Joseph McCarthy (Holy moly the dude who started
McCarthyism???) ? The guy who locked up just about anybody opposed to him or was deemed
a “communist”? Yeah he’s back. But this time, McCarthy has the guts to accuse the fucking
MILITARY of supporting communists. With such an accusation, it was only a matter of time
before the rest of the US which was DEFINITELY NOT a big fan of Joseph turned on him, and
as such, McCarthy was put on national television and fired in front of a live audience. Our story
DOES have a happy ending :D
PAGE 200 WE DID IT GANG
WOOHOO
FUCK YEAH okay now i go sleep
READING QUIZ#7 INFO ENDS HERE
READING QUIZ#8 INFO STARTS HERE
Brown V Board of Education 772 In considering the legal segregation of a Kansas public school
system, the Court rejected its own 1896 Plessy v Ferguson which barred Black Americans from
entering segregated schools not meant for African Americans decision in the Brown v Board of
Education case. This decision was the culmination of many decades of effort by black
opponents of segregation, including a group of NAACP lawyers who trained at Howard
University under Charles Houston.

[PAGE 220]
Separate But Equal Doctrine Overturned 772 In Topeka Kansas, an African American girl that
lived right next to an white elementary school was forced to drive miles to a segregated public
school in order to get her an education. This was brought up to the supreme court where they
found that access to public education needs to be more equal and as such, the separate but
equal doctrine was overturned. This was followed up in 1954 when the Supreme Court released
another decision that urged schools to desegregate ASAP. So Big Ws.
Massive Resistance 772 In some communities, compliance came relatively quickly and quietly.
More often, however, strong local opposition produced long delays and bitter conflicts. Some
school districts ignored the ruling altogether, while others attempted to circumvent it with purely
toke efforts to integrate. More than 100 southern members of Congress signed a “manifesto” in
1956 denouncing the Brown decision and urged their constituents to defy it.
TLDR - After Brown v Board of education, many southern whites opposed it. Some states
refused to comply, delayed integration or signed the 1956 "Southern Manifesto" which resisted
ruling.
Little Rock 773 President Eisenhower met the Brown decision with skepticism, and once said it
had set back progress on race relations “at least fifteen years”. But in September 1957, he
faced a case of direct state defiance of federal authority and had to act. An angry white mob
tried to prevent implementation of the Brown decision by blockading the entrances to the school,
and the Governor refused to do anything to stop it. Eisenhower responded by mobilizing the
National Guard and sending troops to Little Rock.(This should sound familiar)
TLDR - In 1957, 9 African American students tried to go to a high school in Little Rock but faced
violent resistance. Dwight D. Eisenhower sent the National Guard to enforce the integration
after the governor refused.
Montgomery Bus Boycott 773 Rosa Parks, which you guys have all heard of, started the
Montgomery Bus Boycott when she refused to give up her seat to a white passenger in 1955 on
a Montgomery bus. When she was forced to move, African American communities nearby
caught wind and started the Montgomery Bus Boycott, a boycott in which Black citizens opted to
either walk or bike to and from work, reducing a major source of income from the Bus, leading to
the desegregation of busses in Montgomery when economic pressure started to sink in on
Montgomery.
MLK’s Strategy 773 King’s approach to black protest was based on nonviolence. He took from
the teachings of Mahatma Gandhi, Henry David Thoreau and from the Christian doctrine. He
produced an approach to racial struggle that captured the moral high ground for his supporters.
He urged African Americans to engage in peaceful demonstrations and to respond to hate with
love.
Legacy of WWII 774 The textbook raises an interesting question: why did civil rights movements
really start to gain traction in this time period? I’m not talking about the people that were trying to
work day and night hour by hour for the equal rights of all people, but rather the reason why
people who were prior not interested in Civil Rights all of a sudden were on board. This has to

[PAGE 221]
do with the millions of brave African American men and women who fought or helped
manufacture for WWII. All Americans gained more appreciation for their citizens who went to
fight Hitler, and it makes you really reconsider whether or not it’s a good idea to treat your
neighbor who just 20 years ago kicked a nazi in the throat like a piece of shit.
Urban Black Middle Class 774 The urban black middle class had been developing for decades,
but it began to flourish after the war. Much of the impetus for the civil rights movement came
from the leaders of urban black communities, and much also of it came from students at black
colleges and universities.
SNCC 786 The SNCC was the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee, a group of black
students that fought against segregation with sit-ins and other smaller forms of protest.
Freedom Rides 786 Freedom Rides were a tactic endorsed by the CORE (Congress of Racial
Equality) that fought against the segregation of Buses in the south. Freedom Riders tried to
force the desegregation of buses by riding interstate buses into the segregated South, and were
met with savage enough violence that JFK had to send in the army and also pass laws
integrating buses and trains.
This led to the SNCC and other organizations fighting against segregation with greater strength
and conviction.
Birmingham 787 Birmingham, Alabama was a city notable for its amount of segregation and
racism. The Police Commissioner Eugene “Bull” Connor was infamous for using violence
against peaceful protesters through methods such as:
Attack Dogs
Tear Gas
Cattle Prods (electric ones jesus)
And Firehoses
And this was all on TV and against small children as well. Yeah it was not received well by the
public (who probably didn’t really do anything about it)
Also the governor of Alabama George Wallace was against integration and protested Black
students going to the University of Alabama, and he only gave up when ROBERT FUCKING
KENNEDY showed up to tell him to fuck off.
He(Wallace) was still popular because a lot of white people are racist as fuck and didn’t want
integration.
Also at the same time NAACP member Medgar Evers was murdered? Was it related? The book
makes it sound like it was but idk.
March on Washington 787 In August of 19 on 63, led by Martin Luther King Jr and supported by
President Kennedy, Martin Luther King led 200,000 people on a march down the Mall of

[PAGE 222]
Washington DC, giving possibly one of if not the most famous speech in American history (you
know this one cmon). A couple months later, President Lyndon B Johnson managed to get the
most comprehensive civil rights bill passed in the nation's history called the Civil Rights Act of
1964.
Freedom Summer 787 The US was not yet finished however, as voting rights were not yet
available to all US citizens! And as such in the summer of 1964, thousands of people worked to
secure equal voting rights for all Americans regardless of race, thus naming it “Freedom
Summer”. As a side effect of the push for greater equality, white people became a little more
violent as well…
Voting Rights Act 788 After a campaign in Alabama organized by Martin Luther King Jr in March
1965 left 2 Civil Rights activists dead, and along with brutal television coverage of activists
being beaten by Selma’s police department, the nation was sent into a state of horror, driving
even more support for Civil Rights and as such allowing President Lyndon B Johnson to pass
the Civil Rights Act of 1965, or as we call it the Voting Rights Act, giving federal protection to
African Americans trying to vote (so they wouldn’t be beat up for trying to be in a mile radius of
voting booths). It also got rid of that literacy test thingy if u remember .
Due Jure and De Facto segregation 789 This term is just giving us the difference between Due
Jure and De Facto segregation. Due Jure means segregation by law, so Jim Crow laws, and De
Facto segregation is segregation by practice, so it is the majority that carries about the atrocities
of segregation.
Watts Riot 790 The Watts Riot was in LA in 1964, when a white police officer was in the middle
of a traffic stop when he decided to stop what he was doing to beat up some black guy watching
the arrest. This led to a massive race riot and a week of violence.
People were rioting, targeting white people, burning buildings, looting stores, and shooting
policemen with snipers and stuff.
Eventually the National Guard had to show up and stop the riots.
ANd then in 1966, a lot more riots happened.
And then in 1967 even more riots.
Basically a lot of race riots everywhere, which led to some white people questioning the cause
of racial equality due to the amount of violence. Sadly the message a lot of Americans got from
the riots was “we need more police officers and stricter laws” and not “maybe we should be less
racist”
Shift from Integration to Racial Distinction 790 Similar to Marcus Garvey (remember him?), at
this time an increasing number of African Americans were becoming disillusioned with

[PAGE 223]
integration. This led to a newer movement focused on Black empowerment and distinction from
Whites.
The movement as a whole focused on the importance of African American Culture and the
rejection of cultural practices that were borrowed from white society.
It also had the side effect of creating a schism in the Civil Rights movement.
Increasingly Divided Civil Rights Movement 791 There was a divide between more “traditional”
Civil Rights organizations that sought integration through nonviolent protest like the NAACP and
Urban League, and the more Radical Groups like the SNCC and Black Panther Party that called
for radical and sometimes violent action against racism.
For example The Black Panther Party was founded to defend Black rights, even if that defense
meant violence. The Black Panther Party was much more armed and willing to fight than other
groups. They weren’t really violent in practice, but the image of a bunch of armed black people
led to the public image that the group was a bunch of militant radicals.
Nation of Islam 791 The Nation of Islam was a group that taught African Americans to take
responsibility for their own lives and to live by a strict code of behavior. It also taught complete
independence from whites. THe most notable member of this group was Malcom X , an
influential spokesman that was notable for his stance of uncompromising opposition to racism.
He believed in the idea of self defense, using violence if necessary. He was assassinated in
1965, and it was due to rivals from within the Nation of Islam or something. (wasnt it someone
from his old group?)
This truly is the American History Connecting with the Past of all time.
Native Americans Grievances 813
- Small pop hella poverty plus unemployment
- Native Americans had a lot of valid reasons to protest over. Despite being less that 1%
of the population, Native Americans often made over $1000 LESS than African
Americans
- . In addition, almost half of all Native Americans in reservations were jobless, with an
unemployment 10 TIMES as much as the National Rate
- This had the side effect of lowering the lifespan 20 years less than the National Average,
with a youth suicide rate 100 TIMES THE NATIONAL AVERAGE .
- After John Collier, the Commissioner of Indian Affairs resigned, a new policy of
“Termination” was established where the Federal Government went “fuck it” and
withdrew all recognition of Tribes as legal identities, and imposed all US laws and
whatever on Native American tribes. This was to try and force Native Americans to
assimilate
The Failure of Termination 814

[PAGE 224]
Termination did lead to a weakening of Native American Legal rights, but the corruption of the
Termination program led to the program being so fought against that the Eisenhower
Administration effectively 360 noscoped the program from being able to do anything
AIM(American Indian Movement) 815
- 1961, 400 members from 67 tribes discussed something called Declaration of Indian
Purpose , AIM formed in 1968
- Aim Stands for the American Indian Movement
- Immediate political progress with the Indian civil rights act 1968
- AIM focused on getting the US to honor the (very many) treaties that they made and
subsequently ignored.
- The Pressure of AIM led to Nixon promising increased tribal self-determination and
federal aid, but there were still protests because the US had a very bad track record of
honoring their agreements.
Occupation of Wounded Knee 815
- Feb 1973 at Wounded Knee, South Dakota reservation Indigenous peoples organized by
AIM (American Indian Movement) protest ed the continuing mistreatment and lack of
funding for Indigenous peoples by occupying Wounded Knee because it was a spot
where the US Cavalry had killed 300 Sioux peoples in 1890.
- They were there for two months and demanded radical change and for the gov to honor
past treaties
- One Indian dead another wounded
Important Legal Victories 816
- In COurt Cases like United States V Wheeler , the Supreme court confirmed that Native
American Tribes could not be “terminated” and had the authority to impose their own
taxes on their land. County of Oneida V Oneida Indian Nation led to over 100,000 acres
of land being reclaimed by the Oneida Tribe
Surging Latino Immigration 816 Latino/Hispanic Americans were the fastest growing minority group
in the US, with some Latino Americans being in the US since the Mexican American War. Others
immigrated during WWII with the Bracero Program. Even after the war, many Mexican Americans
continued to enter the US undocumented. However in the 1960s and 70s, the amount of Mexican
Americans had surged, beginning to outnumber African Americans.
“Chicano” Activism 816 Partly due to Language barriers and the Family Centered Mexican Culture
that many immigrants held, Latino Unions grew very slowly at first, but in the 1960s, Younger
Mexican Americans began to call themselves Chicanos as a way of emphasizing the shared culture
of Spanish Speaking Americans. Chicanos often advocated for what was basically a Mexican
version of the Black Power movement.
Cesar Chavez 816 One of the most notable Union Workers and a well known name overall, Cesar
Chavez was a Latino Farmworker who created the United Farm Workers organization to strike
against growers and fight for increased wages. At the time, many Southern California farmers often
paid Latino workers pretty much nothing and had them working in what was basically slavery with a
small wage. Allying with CORE and SNCC, Chanvez campaigned a national Grape Boycott and also

[PAGE 225]
for the support of Robert Kennedy. He eventually won against the Grape Farmers and got his union
recognized so good for him you know
“Stonewall Riot” 817 Another important minority group that began to openly fight for rights and
recognition was the LGBTQ+ Community.
The Stonewall Inn was a bar in New York City that was notable for it’s LGBTQ+ patrons. On June 27
1969, the Police decided to raid the bar and arrest everyone for the crime of being gay (they
assumed everyone in the bar was gay). At this point everyone was fed up with the police harassing
the bar, and this led to the police being attacked, and then someone started a fire in the Stonewall
Inn, and then things escalated into a Riot.
The Stonewall Riot really made the Gay Liberation Movement public thing, with new organizations
springing up in the wake of the Riots. In addition, Public discussion on LGBTQ+ stuff became a lot
less taboo and more openly discussed.
Impact of the Gay Liberation Movement 818 The Gay liberation movement led to a lot of people
gaining the strength to only come out as gay and demand the recognition of gay relationships as
legitimate. Even through the AIDS epidemic and other events, the LGBTQ+ gained several legal
victories. In the 1990s especially, there were many wins and a couple losses for the LGBTQ+
community. For example, the “Don’t Ask Don’t Tell” Policy was created as a weak compromise
between the Military and the LGBTQ Community.
- Someone add more to this typing on a chromebook is miserable.
- Oh nooo typing on a chromebook how horrible!!!!
The Feminine Mystique 819 A book written by Betty Friedan, which wrote about the true feelings
of the American housewife and how although they are living what should be a “perfect” life they
are really just living a mundane life in which they are basically fully controlled by their husbands.
The book brought mass attention across the US about the state of women’s role in society in the
suburban age, either through newfound support or extreme criticism.
NOW Founded 819 National Organization for Women, founded in the 60s and greatly influenced
by The Feminine Mystique by Betty Friedan, they fought for the equal opportunity of women in
workplaces (Wage gap still exists), especially the fact that women couldn’t work in a lot of
industries.
From google: it also asked for greater legal equality, reproductive rights and the Equal rights
amendment using grassroots activism.
New Directions in the Women’s Movement 819 Seeing little change in their way of life in
addition to continued prejudice even in civil rights movements, women’s movements began to
ramp up at an incredible rate. Specifically, The Feminine Mystique outlined the problems they
faced perfectly.
Political and Economic Success 820 Women’s movements during this time period also made
great strides, specifically, the government officially announced the work-related sexism as an

[PAGE 226]
official problem, and in addition all-male colleges(such as Yale or Princeton) slowly started to
open their doors to female students, and all-women colleges started opening their doors to male
students. By 1970, 90% of all women with degrees were working, and 60% of all married
women were also working, thus marking the start of the “2 career household” in which both
parents worked (the family we are used to).
Failure of ERA 821 ERA is the Equal Rights Amendment, which was passed by Congress in the
70s, it was proposed by feminists and would… uh… textbook doesn’t say. In fact this entire
thing is barely 2 sentences. Thanks textbook. The push for this amendment slowly died down
however, thus was a “failure”.
But what the ERA was going to do was provide women with more marriage rights, specifically
equal rights in divorce, property ownership and employment. (Thanks google search engine!)
The ERA was stopped by the efforts of Phyllis Shlafly, who said that “Yeah uh a majority of
women do actually want to stay at home all day do nothing and have their rights stripped away
from them”. If you already didn’t like her enough, she was a catalyst in Ronald Reagan’s
presidential campaign. Not much to like about her. Not a girlboss or a girlfailure, just a prick.
Roe v. Wade 821 A part of feminism that hasn’t really been touched up on till now is the idea
that women should be entitled to their own body and be able to take action for sexual assault or
harm (crazy how it was never considered before). Specifically, women were facing an issue with
lack of birth control methods and the fact that abortion was illegal , and as such in 1973, the
Supreme Court ruled in Roe v. Wade that abortion was a legal right for women across the
country.
Unfortunately on Jun 24, 2024 , Roe v. Wade was overturned and now(as of 2024) half of the
US States has made abortion completely illegal.
READING QUIZ#8 INFO ENDS HERE
READING QUIZ#9 INFO STARTS HERE
Know the difference between vietnamization, containment and detente. Also know what type of
music was produced during this time, it should be folk music. Also, know which American
leaders were assassinated in 1968, it would be MLK and RFK. I would not recommend using
this doc for this specific quiz, there is a lot of information not here.
Election of 1960 782 In the 1960 Election, John F Kennedy would win the election due to his
appealing public image and political views. He promised a set of reforms on the scale of the

[PAGE 227]
New Deal, and also argued for a massive tax cut. He also used his winning personality to win
voters.
“Flexible Response” 792 Flexible response was Kennedy’s foreign policy of not using atomic
weapons as the only way to stop communism. Kennedy believed that the US should be
preparing for more Third World countries becoming communist, and that belief led to the
expansion of the “Green Berets” or guerrilla fighters.
Kennedy also was more flexible in negotiations, creating many projects designed to help
develop and stabilize Latin American Countries.
Bay of Pigs 792 A failed assault on Cuba, the CIA funded and trained a group of anti Castro
Cubans to fight and invade Cuba. The Cubans expected US air support and a massive public
response, both of which did not happen. Kennedy was scared of the US starting a war through
direct intervention, and chose not to help the rebel Cubans win. Uh. they did not have a “nah id
win” moment in fact and lost instead.
Cuban Missile Crisis 793 The Cuban Missile Crisis was a thing where the USSR was not very
happy about US missiles in Turkey and Italy, and therefore teamed up with Cuba to put USSR
Missiles in Cuba. To the Americans, this was an unprecedented aggression, but to everyone
with a brain this was a probably defensive thing. Basically the US was planning to maybe
invade Cuba for real this time, but also blockaded the USSR from sending stuff to Cuba.
Basically the end result was the US took their missiles out of Italy and Turkey, and the USSR
took their missiles out of Cuba.
Of course the book did not mention Turkey or Italy at all, but well…
This term over here is not explicitly mentioned in the textbook.
Kennedy Assassinated 783 Ok so they talk about him dying before anything he actually did????
On November 22 1963, JFK was shot in the head and throat by Lee Harvey Oswald during a
presidential motorcade. There was a massive amount of mourning by the AMerican people, and
the circumstances around JFK’s death led to a lot of conspiracy theories.
After JFK died, his vice president Lyndon Johnson became the president. He had many views
differing from Kennedy, but they both believed in using their powers to create change.
Intervention in the Dominican Republic 793 Lyndon Johnson (the guy who stepped up after
Kennedy was assassinated) intervened in the Dominican Republic after a 1961 assassination of
Dictator Rafael Trujillo. This assassination led to a bunch of groups fighting for control of the
nation. In 1965, a pro Castro guy named Juan Bosch was going to win, so the US sent in
30,000 troops to “mildly influence” the election results.
The Vietminh 794 So Vietnam was a colony of France up until this point, and then a Nationalist
movement called the Vietminh, led by Ho Chi Minh (who is a communist) began to liberate
Vietnam from the Fr*nch. He started a whole revolution against the French, and Truman

[PAGE 228]
decided to not intervene. The US did foot the bill for France’s war though, but stopped when the
French lost at Dien Bien Phu. After that battle, the French dipped from Vietnam and the country
was independent.
Geneva Conf. 795 (This was the Geneva Accords) A n international conference that was planned
to settle the Korea land dispute and also Vietnam. The conference led to a cease fire and a
partition of Vietnam at the 17th Parallel. The Vietminh would control the North, and a Pro
Western government would be set up in the south. Ok so here is the big part. They decided an
election would be held in 1956 to decide which government would control all of Vietnam .
Ngo Dinh Diem 796 Ngo Dinh Diem was the leader of the Southern Vietnamese government,
and he was pretty ok at first . With the help of the CIA, he weakened some religious groups and
mafia groups that challenged the new government. Because of this, the US saw Diem as a very
good leader (for the US).
However, the guy correctly figured out that he realistically did not have a chance to win that
1956 election (due to the whole being pretty much a US puppet ruler thing), so he used his
power to try and prevent the election from happening. This was not taken well by the North.
The NLF 796 The National Liberation Front or the Viet Cong was a group allied with Northern
Vietnam that fought to reunify the country under Ho Chi Minh. THe NLF began destabilizing
South Vietnam, and was killing about 4000 South Vietnamese government officials per year,
which is not very good for their government.
Diem Overthrown 796 The US could see the writing on the wall for Diem, and knew he was
gonna fail because of his lack of willingness to compromise or like, improve the situation at all.
Also Diem decided to persecute many Buddhists, which was bad because that was a decent
amount of South Vietnam and that whole thing led to a bunch of protests and self immolations.
55So JFK “approved” some South Vietnamese Generals staging a Coup to assassinate Diem
(yay) and his advisors and brother (boo). The new government(S) that popped up afterward
were even more unstable so oh well.
Pressure for American Intervention 796 There were a lot of small factors that led to Johnson’s
intervention in Vietnam. Johnson felt like he had to prove his worthiness for the office due to him
being put in there as a replacement to JFK. Many of his advisors told Johnson that the US had
an obligation to fight against the spread of communism. In addition, the Containment Doctrine
applied fully to Vietnam.
Gulf of Tonkin Resolution 796 The Gulf of Tonkin resolution was a resolution passed by
congress that authorized the president to protect American forces and “prevent further
aggression” in Vietnam. This was basically the legal authorization for Johnson escalating the
Vietnam War.

[PAGE 229]
Mounting Casualties 797 The Vietnam war would lead to a lot of people being sent to Vietnam
(no way). IN 1965, there were 180,000 Americans in Vietnam, by 1967, 500,000 American
Soldiers would be fighting in Vietnam. By 1966, more than 4000 Americans were killed, which
demoralized the US.
Strategy of “Attrition” 798 The US was planning to use their much higher number of soldiers and
number of bombs to eventually force the Vietnamese to give up through sheer damage and
numbers. However, the US found that the North Vietnamese were willing to fight a lot harder
than expected, so this strategy didn’t really do the demoralizing that it was intended to do.
Also it had the side effect of having a lot of bombs dropped and also a lot of soldiers killed
Like a zerg rush but it didn’t work and now the US is taking anL (Ryan what is a zerg rush) (isnt
it that google easter egg game that doesnt work anymore?)
“Hearts and Minds” 799 The “pacification” program, intended to push the Viet Cong from areas
chosen by the US and then “pacify” those regions by winning the “hearts and minds” of the
people, was a crucial part of the American strategy but was abandoned over time. American
forces were not adept at establishing the kind of rapport with provincial Vietnamese that the Viet
Cong had created.
Growing Opposition to War 800 By the end of 1967, American students who opposed the war
had become a significant political force. Peace marches in New York, Washington DC, and other
cities drew broad attention to the antiwar movement. Opposition to the war became a central
issue in left-wing politics and in the culture of colleges and universities.
War-Induced Inflation 800 Johnson’s commitment to fighting the war while continuing his Great
Society reforms(“Guns and butter”) proved to be impossible to maintain. The inflation rate rose
from 2 percent to 6 percent in just two years. In order to combat this, Johnson asked for a tax
increase which was necessary to stop inflation from growing, and in return conservatives
received a six billion dollar reduction in Great Society funding.
Political and Psychological Defeat 801 While American forces were able to combat the Tet
offensive, and even severely weaken the NLF, it was a political defeat for the administration.
Tet offensive - Viet cong and north vietnamese forces pays visit (invades) to the south, targeting
100 cities and towns in the south during the lunar new year holiday. It fucked up Johnson’s
popularity and shocked the American public, leading to Americans hating the war even more.
Robert Kennedy 803 Big Robert Kennedy DECLINED an invitation by democrats to be their
candidate, and then entered the campaign on his own. Kennedy, and the Democrat backed
Eugene McCarthy, curb stomped the president in polls and forced Lyndon Johnson to withdraw
from the presidential race.

[PAGE 230]
Riots 803 MLK’s tragic death produced an outpouring of grief, and, among African Americans,
also produced anger. Major riots broke out in more than sixty American cities. Forty-three
people died; more than 3,000 were injured, and 27,000 people were arrested.
The “Kennedy Legacy” 803 Robert Kennedy, who was viewed as a colder, more ruthless agent
of his more appealing brother, had emerged as a figure of enormous popular appeal. More than
JFK, Robert identified his hopes with the American “underclass”(Blacks, Hispanics, Native
Americans, the poor). He, much more than John, shaped what some consider the “Kennedy
legacy”, a set of ideas that, for a time, was central to American liberalism.
And what was the Kennedy legacy? It was the commitment to using the government to help the
powerless. The passions Kennedy aroused made his violent death a particularly shattering
experience for many Americans.
Democratic National Convention 804 Even the most optimistic observers were predicting a
turbulent convention with such high anti-war sentiment. Inside the convention, delegates bitterly
argued an antiwar plank in the party platform that both Kennedy and McCarthy supporters
favored.
The Democratic National Convention (1968) was a gathering in Chicago of thousands of
anti-war protesters. They, as well as the media and bystanders were violently beaten by the
police. “The whole world is watching!” was the chant they used. Hubert Humphrey received a
nomination for his party’s candidate for the democratic president (he would lose to Nixon).
George Wallace 804 George Wallace was the Alabama Governor who ran for president under
the Democratic Party. This guy was a HARD Conservative, who supported segregation. He
argued under a platform of going against social reform, denouncing integration and antiwar
demonstrations. He was never a real candidate who was gonna win, but he still got a decent
20% support in the polls at times.
Nixon Victorious 805 Doubts about Nixon’s character made some skeptical of his abilities as a
president, and the actually Democratic candidate Hubert Humphrey put up a very good fight
against Nixon. However, uh turns out Richard Nixon won by like 800,000 votes, which isn’t a lot.
Henry Kissinger 824 Nixon appointed him to be a national security adviser. They wanted to
stalemate in vietnam by Vietnamization(transfer of responsibility in the war back to the south
vietnamese people) which didn't work so they went to military pressure as the answer yay i love
violence
Kent State 825 Richard Nixon sends the national guard to stop the protesting college students
in Ohio. National guard kills 4 students and 9 were wounded. The protests were because the
Vietnam war was kind of fucked up, yo. Kind of fucked because they were exercising their right
to assemble and killing political dissidents is like. Not cool, man.

[PAGE 231]
Consequences of “Vietnamization” 825 The policy of “Vietnamization” was where they gave the
South Vietnamese resources and training so they could take the responsibility of the war efforts.
Nixon announces the reduction of 60k troops from Vietnam after the fall of 1969(what is this? (I
think it’s like the time of year) (ohhhh taht would make sense i thought it meant the fall of
something LOL))
It was the US’ way of pulling out of Vietnam while still trying to maintain influence in Vietnam.
Guys was richard nixon one of the things they carried????
I’m gonna morb rn?
My Lai Massacre 826 (IAN LAI THE GOLF GOAT?????)
The US Army had a lack of morale and a lack of discipline, as the war seemed to be pointless
and losing. Making things worse, the US army had a lot of problems with desertion, racism, drug
addiction, refusal to listen to orders, and fragging (killing unpopular officers). Making things
worse, a lot of Soldiers were paranoid as hell due to the Viet Cong’s tactics of dressing up like
civilians. This led to One William Calley leading a massacre of 300 people in an unarmed
village, believing (at least he said) that everyone in the village was a Viet Cong. This of course,
was covered up by the government until it wasn’t, and it ruined the Government’s image even
more than it already had with other things about the Vietnam War.
Easter Offensive 826 The Easter Offensive was During March 1972, when the North
Vietnamese mounted the biggest Offensive since Tet. American and South Vietnamese forces
held on, but it was clear that America was the one hard carrying the war fr. At the same time,
Americans bombed the cities of Hanoi, Haiphong, and mined harbors to prevent naval trade.
“Christmas Bombing” 826 So for Much of the spring and summer of 1972, Kissinger and Le Duc
Tho were working out the terms for a ceasefire, and by October 26, things were looking good.
However, Some SOuth Vietnamese General was bitching about getting ALL North Vietnamese
soldiers out of South Vietnam, which led to negotiations breaking down. The Day after
Negotiations broke down, Nixon decided to bomb Hanoi, Haiphong, and North Vietnam in
general. This led to the destruction of 15 Bomber planes (Which is 15 times the amount of
bomber planes lost in the war so far (one)) and also the media reporting on the deaths of a tom
of civilians, which did not go well.
On January 27 1973, a cease fire was signed, which was pretty much the same agreement,
where American Hostages are freed and stuff.
Fall of Saigon 826 After the Ceasefire and America kind of stepping back, the South
Vietnamese had lost their 1000lp Challenger Smurf in their boosted plat lobby. South Vietnam
quickly lost MORE people in a year than the US had for the 10 years of fighting they had been
doing. In March 1975, Saigon gets attacked by the North Vietnamese, and they take the City,
rename it Ho Chi Minh City (original) and then begin reunification. At the same Time, Cambodia
is undergoing a Massacre under the rule of Khmer Rouge and Pol Pot.

[PAGE 232]
At the end of the war 1.2 Million Vietnamese had died, and the US lost $150 Billion and 55,000
Americans. A lot more were injured, and a lot of Americans lost faith in their government and its
competency. But at least they got democracy (clueless)
Toward a “Multipolar” World 827 Kissinger and Nixon realized that there were in fact, other
powerful countries other than the US and USSR. They believed that America had to adapt to a
world where China, Japan, and other European Countries could become major powerful forces.
Nixon’s China Visit 827 To Help further his vision of a Multipolar world, Nixon Visited China
which helped improve America’s public image in China. They also wanted to improve relations
with the USSR, so being friendly to another communist country probably looked good.
Salt I 827 The Strategic Arms Limitation Treaty I was a major part of Kissinger's Detente plan,
which was not mentioned, but it was in AP World. Detente is basically de escalation so yeah.
But SALT froze the quantity of nuclear missiles for both the USSR and US at the current levels,
and no other nuclear weapons would be made.
Nixon Doctrine 827 The Nixon Doctrine was a kinda isolationist policy now where the US is like
“We are your allies and will help you, but you have to do all the defense part yourself”. This was
basically a response to the Vietnam War’s disastrous results.
“Six-Day War” 828 In 1967, Israel jumped Egyptian, Syrian, and Jordanian Forces in Jerusalem
and occupied territories on the Jordan River, the Gaza strip , the Golan Heights, and a lot of
other land. It also had the side effect of pissing off a lot of Palestinians who had been living
there for a while, but details amirite?
Anyway this led to Egypt and Syria attacking Israel on Yom Kippur, and Israel led a successful
counterattack. This whole thing was gonna explode, so the US used its force and asked Israel
very nicely to stop before things escalated.
Arab Oil Embargo 828 A Lot of Middle Eastern Countries embargoed Oil to the US to protest its
support of Israel. This had a LOT of impact on the US economy, which runs on oil pretty much.
READING QUIZ#9 INFO ENDS HERE
READING QUIZ#10 INFO STARTS HERE
Silent Spring - I don’t know what ts is about but it’s written by Rachel Carson. It’s literally just
about how pesticides are bad and stuff.

[PAGE 233]
The Great Society 784 The Great Society was a reform program that was similar to the New
Deal. What did the Great Society do? See below, because this point doesn't really mention it.
But what else does this point mention?
Johnson was a really popular guy, and the death of JFK led to a lot of sympathy support for his
reforms.
Medicare and Medicaid 784 Medicare was a program to aid the elderly’s medical expenses.
Some people argued against it claim it it to be socialism, but as the program went into effect it
was pretty good so people stopped complaining.
It stopped complaints by being available to everyone, which got rid of the “But it’s welfare!”
complaint, leading to many middle class Americans being eligible.
It also let doctors charge bills like they normally would, just that the government would pay the
bills.
The Medicaid program extended the Medicare program to welfare recipients and other people
that were like, eligible for social security and stuff (low-income, poor people).
Easy way to remember: aid the poor, care for the old
Community Action Program 784 The Community action program was an effort to get people in
poor communities to be active in the planning and administration of welfare programs meant to
help them. This led to many people getting experience in administration and political work. THis
helped a lot of politicians and activists get their head start. However, the program quickly died
due to a lack of power in creating change and also lack of funding.
Housing and Urban Development 785 The Housing Act of 1961 led to a lot of money for cities to
build Transportations systems and middle income housing. The Department of Housing and
Urban Development was created. Yeah. What did it do? IDK FUCK THIS BOOK MAN IT
DOENS’T SAY SHIT SOMETIMES.
ANd also the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 led to a lot of money being
given to private and parochial schools.
Immigration Act of 1965 The Immigration Act of 1965 first abolished the Immigration Act of
1920 and set a strict limit on immigrants entering the US per year (170,000), but removed the
racial part of the quota system meaning that no Europeans or whatever were favored. Except
for Latin America. But everywhere else? Yeah go ahead.
This led to a massive amount of Asians entering the US. Basically, Asians win, European and
Latinos lose.
Failures and Achievements of the Great Society 785a Overall the Great Society led to a
massive increase in Government spending and a growing economy. However as more

[PAGE 234]
programs were implemented, the programs began to compete for funding with the US Army, and
government spending was rising too high for how effective the programs were (not that good)
By the 1980s, many Americans believed the program to be a failure. However, It DID
substantially reduce hunger, made medicare available to many elderly (65+ y.o) people,
and medicaid contributed to the greatest reduction of poverty in American History from
21% below the line in 1959 to 12% in 1969.
“Liberation” 808 In the 1960s and 70s, there was a pattern and movement of cultural and social
protest from young americans. These young Americans often pushed for freeform and equality.
The vision of Liberation saw many minority groups like African Americans, Native Americans,
LGBTQ+ people, and Hispanics push for their rights and recognition by greater society.
Sources of the New Left 808 The new left come from a radicalization of many College students,
embracing the causes of Racial Equality. The New left was often inspired by social critics like C
Wright Mills, who wrote a series of essays on the flaws of modern society. Other people in the
new left admired communist leaders like Mao Zedong or Ho Chi Minh. But most of the New Left
drew inspiration from the very successful Civil Rights Movement.
SDS 809(Students for a Democratic Society)
- 1962, bunch of preppy students formed the SDS in Michigan
- They grumpy with current politics
The Students for a Democratic Society was an organization focused on building a new political
system and create reforms. They tried to get poor and working class people to be politically
motivated, with little success.
Free Speech Movement 809 The Free Speech movement was a thing going on at UC Berkeley
with students challenging the administration and going on strike. These students protested
against the impersonal character of modern university, and denouncing the role of educational
institutions in maintaining the corrupt status quo. This led to a lot of rioting and protesting and
stuff
TC:DR 1964’s Free Speech movement was a student protest demanding the right to engage in
political speech on campus after UC Berkely decided to restrict political speech and activism on
campus.
People’s Park 809 The People’s Park debacle was a fight over an empty lot in UC Berkeley.
Students wanted to build a park, but the University wanted a parking lot. This thing escalated to
an extreme degree, with many students protesting for the building of a park. Many students
began believing that the Campus Administration, police, and Political and Economic Systems
were all part of one united oppressive force (literally 1984)
Also adding fuel to the fire, an SDS splinter faction called the Weathermen to do a little trolling
and began bombing and burning buildings. Students also protested against the Vietnam War,
targeting the ROTC and military recruiters, and also laboratories producing weapons for the war.

[PAGE 235]
“Bloody Sunday” - police clashed with protestors at People’s park led to 100 injuries and the
death of James Rector.
“Hippies” 811 “hippie” was a term people used for the Youth Culture of long hair, shabby
clothing, and overall rebellious behavior. Many Hippies also did drugs like weed and LSD, and
were also more openly sexual thanks to new birth control methods.
Their counterculture movement challenged the structure of modern society, arguing against it’s
corporatism and materialism.
Haight Ashbury 812
- Haight Ashbury was a part of SF. They was hella extreme believers in counterculture
- Many Hippies also moved to mure rural areas in order to live a simpler and more
“natural” lifestyle
Growing Influence of Rock n’ Roll 812
- Pretty self explanatory
- Rock N Roll gained popularity due to the themes of anger, frustration, and rebellion that
many young Americans identified with.
- Important guys: Rolling stones, Beatles, Buddy Holly.
- IMPORTANT NOTE: Elvis was not one of the guys that supported youth counter culture,
the 3 mentioned above did.
Idea of an Interrelated World 821 If you guys remember, the environmentalists of old were
people that really cared about, well, the environment. However, this was more out of a care for
the visual appeal of the natural world around them, their main concern was that of preserving
the natural beauty of the world around them. As the world of science moved forward however, a
new field of study, Ecology, popped up. This field of study focused more on the impacts of
certain industries on the environment, and was more focused on preserving the environment for
the sake of preserving nature rather than for a pretty view.
Ecology’s Postwar Growth 822 in 1945-1960 number ecologists grew and almost doubled and in
1960s and 70s governments, universities, and foundations began to fund ecological science
and soon many universities would have their own ecology programs and departments
This leads to many ecologists publishing their works and trying to promote better care for
environments and trying to deal with environmental crises
New Professional Environmental Activists 822 before the growth in environmentalism there
were many organizations that existed and now were committed to the ideas of
environmentalism. With these organizations having an interest in this new Environmental
Activists rose up.
These activists were not only scientists but also lawyers, lobbyists and such. Their goal was to
create a better environment through political and legal means.

[PAGE 236]
- Wilderness Society, Sierra Club, National Audubon Society, Nature Conservancy
National Wildlife Federation, and the National Parks and Conservation Association
Water and Air Pollution 823
Water Pollution - many major cities were dealing with bad smells and pollution of rivers became
a real problem with people now concerned about health risks
- This might not be important but the Cuyahoga river in ohio has so much petroleum
dumped into it that it would occasionally just light on fire(ofc its ohio)
Air Pollution - With mass pollution from factories and power plants people began to become
afraid of the air itself being unhealthy and aware of their cars poisoning the atmosphere.
- he word “smog” was invented through weather forecasts describing the smoke fog as
smog levels which was a normal in large cities such as LA and Denver
Environmentalists began to bring awareness to the use of oil and fossil fuels and also the
destruction of bodies of water due to acid rain(water that is contaminated falling as rain causing
dangerous levels of chemicals killing aquatic plants and animals). Also like deforestation and
stuff. Most of this stuff you already know its just like stuff about caring for the environment
The First “Earth Day” 823
April 22 1970 was the first earth day where people gathered in schools, universities, churches,
clubs, etc for the first Earth Day, which was proposed by the Wisconsin Senator Gaylord Nelson.
EPA Established 823 in 1970 Nixon signs the Environmental Protection Act which created the
Environmental Protection Agency which enforces anti-pollution standards on businesses and
consumers.
- 1970 Clean Air Act
- 1972 Clean Water Act
2.6 Hog Cycle 823 bowin chen throw a lot of men sitting on swines ( erm ashually 2.6 hog cycle uses hog
rider and saying swines instists that you might be talking about royal hogs which is often used in a much
higher elixer deck such … as idk im just making shit up at this point but also HOG RIDAAA yeah so yup)
(royal hogs don’t have men sitting on them though. (YOURE THE RIDER? (no, you decide where they
start at, not where they go, whereas the hog rider is the one wrangling the quadrepedal abomination that
is the pig (thats kinda mean what if the hog read that!!!! (acab? idk) ) ) ) Using context clues you can figure
out that i am talking about the hog rider. You unamerican freak) at my towers until they die :(
Dismantling the Great Society 828 Nixon’s main followers were the Middle Class White people
who wanted to reduce federal interference in their daily lives. Nixon defined a lot of programs
from the Great Society, and refused to pass legislation that would further the Great Society’s
goals. However, he wasn’t a 100% conservative. He wanted to pass the Family assistance Plan,
which was the super new idea of universal income for all American Families. However, that plan
was killed by a lot of conservatives in the Senate. Oh Well.

[PAGE 237]
Baker v. Carr 829 Baker V Carr was a court case by the Warren Court, which was what they
called the currently pretty Liberal Supreme Court. This case required electoral districts to be
portioned so each vote had equal weight among all voters in a State. At the time, rural areas
with white people were given the same power as all the Minorities in an urban area, which really
marginalized them and got rid of a lot of their Voting Power.
Baker v Board of Regents of California 829 This Court CaseMaintained Affirmative Action.
What’s that? Good Question. It’s like when the government gives additional help to
disenfranchised people and minorities who need it. Equity sort of thing.
The Stuff BEFORE this point is pretty important though.
The supreme court was pretty OLD so a lot of them left during Nixon’s term. During that time, he
replaced many of the Justices with more conservative people who shared his views.
Despite the massive Conservative shift, the SUpreme court still made many important social
reforms, such as overturning the Death Penalty and Legalizing Abortion.
George McGovern 829
In 1972 George Wallace was assassinated so George McGovern was re-elected as senator and
was made the new democratic candidate in South Dakota (a very liberal place). He took liberal
perspectives to social and economic issues His name was Govern???
Nixon’s Landslide 829 Nixon DESTROYED GEORGE in the 1972 election. One of the biggest
landslides in history winning 60% compared to 57% in popular vote and 520 to 17 in electoral
votes
Inflation 830 inflation has been creeping up on American society since it has become the
strongest currency in the world. The causes for the inflation rate were because
- In the 60s the Johnson Administration tried to fund the Vietnam War WITHOUT raising
taxes.
- The US also lost exclusive access to cheap raw materials due to the rise in other
industrialized nations competing for this resource causing the suppliers to demand
higher prices.
- The oil reserves the US has been using for petroleum isn't sufficient enough to have
cheap gas.
OPEC 831 (Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries) OPEC has struggles to negotiate oil
trade with third world countries causing a reliance on countries in the middle east for the oil, but
during the Yom Kippur War(Israel vs Arab Coalition(Egypt and Syria)) Arab members of OPEC
refused to ship oil to countries that supported Israel(many West EU and the US). This causes
OPEC nations to raise their oil priced by 400% causing the first oil shortage since WWII. (Oil
Shock of 1973)

[PAGE 238]
Deindustrialization 831 By the 1970s the US factories were getting old and worse compared to
the new Japanese and European ones. The US steel and car factories were having too much
competition from these foreign nations, and along with lower labor costs US factories seemed
inferior. This is when the US begins their deindustrialization; thousands of factories across the
US close down and millions of Americans lose their jobs.
This causes a change from the previous labor based industries to be replaced by the knowledge
based industry allowing America to get back on its feet from 80s to 90s.
“Stagflation” 832 A Very bad mix of economic Stagnation (flat economic growth) and Economic
inflation during the 1970s. In the summer of 1971, Nixon tried to fix things by freezing all wages
and prices on goods for 90 days. He then released guidelines for wage and price increases to
be administered by the government. Later on, government spending and dropping interest rates
helped fix the economy with a bandaid but uh inflation still. bad.
The Changing Presidency 832 Nixon had a bunch of bad scandals that ruined his public image.
Nixon wanted to get a lot of reforms done, but since WWII, the power that the president held
had been slowly limited and constrained. Nixon resorted to less than legal methods in order to
pass the legislation he wanted.
The Watergate Break-In 833 On June 17 1972, 5 men were arrested for breaking into the
Watergate office building in Washington DC. The Scandal part of this was that some of these
burglars were former employees of government branches related to the president. One of the
suspects worked at the White House. Also the group had been paid by a fund controlled by the
White House Staff.
In 1973, the Watergate Trials underwent, where many confessions were made exposing many
Nixon and Whitehouse officials.
“Cover-Up” 833 Another thing that popped up from the trials and the thing Watergate is notable
for is the way the Nixon administration attempted to cover up or hinder the Watergate Break In
investigation . There was no conclusive evidence of Nixon planning the burglary, but there was
proof he had tried to stop the investigation.
Also bad for Nixon was his refusal to hand over some tapes during a Senate Hearing that had
recorded all of Nixon’s conversations in his office at the time. Uh that was pretty suspicious so
there was a special court case to force Nixon to hand the tapes over.
Nixon tried to fire Archibald Cox, the prosecutor of the “hand over the tapes Nixon” trial, which
led to…
“Saturday Night Massacre” 833 Attorney General Elliot Richardson and his Deputy resigning in
protest of Nixon’s Actions. This made the public image of Nixon go way down, and a new
prosecutor Leon Jaworski was also very very willing to make Nixon hand the tapes over.

[PAGE 239]
US v. Richard M. Nixon 833 In 1973, Nixon’s Vice President was caught accepting bribes, which
basically made him resign from being in government. Since Nixon was on his own at this point,
the US had a Supreme Court Case US V Richard M Nixon , which ended with Nixon being
forced to hand over the tapes. This led to the proposal to impeach Nixon, under 3 charges
1. Obscuring Justice with the Watergate Coverup
2. Misusing Federal Agencies to violate Citizens Rights
3. Defying Congress by not handing over those damn tapes
Things were not looking good for Nixon, as many of the tapes had pretty damning evidence that
Nixon covered up Watergate, with him ordering the FBI to not investigate.
Nixon Resigns 833 On August 8 1974, Nixon FFed his presidency and resigned. At noon the
next day, Gerald Ford became president. Many Americans were happy that Nixon was gone, as
he led to a massive public discrediting of the government.
Nixon Pardoned 838 One of the first things Ford did as president was pardon Nixon, which
instantly ruined his public image because like, people still hated Nixon and believed Ford was
being paid off or something.
Ford’s Diplomatic Successes 838 Gerald Ford and Henry Kissinger had some major Diplomatic
wins with SALT II, limiting even more arms between the US and USSR. Also, Kissinger helped
Israel and Egypt stop fighting and had Israel return land to Egypt that was previously occupied.
In the 1976 Election, Republican Ronald Regan lost to Democrat Jimmy Carter , who people
voted for because people didn’t like Ford.
Carter’s Lack of Direction 839 Carter was kind of a political outsider, which made people vote
for him as he was unrelated to the chaotic politics in the US with Nixon and Watergate and such.
However, Carter didn’t really have a goal or Vision for the US like other presidents. Carter
proposed a lot of stuff, like tax and welfare reforms, but Congress did not pass most of his
proposals.
High Interest Rates 839 Due to high oil prices, there was a lot of interest rates in general, which
was bad. And since Jimmy Carter was president, they blamed him for those interest rates.
Camp David Accords 840 The Camp David Accords was an agreement between Egypt and
Israel. On September 1978 Carter announced a framework for a peace treaty between the two
countries. At the same time, Carter tried to improve relations with the USSR and China, by
agreeing to meet with Deng Xiaoping and also traveling to meet with Brezhnev to discuss SALT
II.

[PAGE 240]
Iranian Revolution 840 In 1979, Iran had been led by an Autocratic Shah, who people didn’t like,
and the churches didn’t like him either which made a lot of the religious people in Iran against
him. People didn’t like how he tried to modernize and Westernize society, and they led a
revolution. The chaos in the country prevented the US from engaging in diplomacy. The Shah
fled to New York, which led to a hostage situation at the US embassy in Iran with people being
taken hostage until the Shah was sent back to Iran to be killed or whatever.
Also the USSR decided to invade Afghanistan at the time, which was not a good thing for the
world political climate, and it really heightened US/USSR Tensions.
Carter’s Falling Popularity 841 The Hostage Crisis, economic troubles, and overall world chaos
led to the American People not liking Carter very much.
READING QUIZ#10 INFO ENDS HERE
READING QUIZ#11 INFO STARTS HERE
Rise of the “Sunbelt” 842 The Sunbelt was the Southeast(florida), Southwest(texas), and
California, states with significantly more people than other states. The Sunbelt often had a lot of
conservative politics, with people arguing for a weaker government and less regulations. For
example, people did not like the literally 1984 changes like speed limits and environmental laws.
Sagebrush Rebellion 842 the Sagebrush Rebellion was a western conservative movement
against environmental laws and restrictions on urban and industrial development. It portrayed
the Western US as suffering because of government control, and demanded that land in the
west be open to development
Suburban Conservatism 842 One place notable for its conservativeness was Orange County in
California. Many suburbs were full of only white people, and the echo chamber suburbs created
a massive conservative populace. Also they liked their shopping malls or something. One
important note: Malls became huge during this era and designed to cater towards women and
families.
Evangelical Christianity 843 Another 1970s development was the development of a religious
revival like the Great Awakening. Except this time people started making cults like
Scientologym, the Unification Church of Reverend Sun Myung Moon, and the People’s temple.
Also Evangelical Christianity, which argued that people could directly talk to god and be reborn
or something. TV Pastors became a major thing, and many Americans believed in their “Born
Again by Talking to God” christianity or something, creating their own Christian Media(radio,

[PAGE 241]
media, newspaper, tv, internet websites), companies, schools, and like stuff where they had fly
rhymes and sick beats and big crews that grew in size.
Here are some examples of evangelicals just in case we almost get ass fucked by a reading
quiz (AHEM, Elvis): Billy Graham, Oral Roberts
Ronald Reagan 844 Ronald Reagan was a popular Actor who somehow became a political
Activist. He was inspired by FDR at first(Yay!), but later his second wife, Nancy Davis,
convinced him to become a conservative (aw fuck). He somehow made it to being the leader of
the Republican Party and became the Governor of California somehow. He also became a
spokesperson for General Electric.
Proposition 13 845 Prop 13 was a tax revolt in California, where Prop 13 would lower property
tax rates. Since the New Deal, Conservatives have been unhappy with the growth of federal
welfare programs. Conservatives often tried to defeat or defund these programs with mediocre
success. Things like Medicaid and Social Security were very popular with the people, so
defunding these things without political suicide was very very very hard.
But then people found out that instead of defunding specific programs, you can just limit the
amount of money the Government has.
Attacking Taxes 845 By lowering the tax rates, the government’s ability to create or
maintain welfare programs was smacked in the kneecaps with a metal bat. In addition,
telling voters they are paying less taxes goes a lot better than telling voters they are losing their
social security so there was that.
1980 Election 845 In the 1980 Election, Reagan was the Republican Nominee, arguing that
Carter wasn’t able to do anything like fix the Iranian Hostage Crisis or fix the economy. Reagan
beat Jimmy Carter by 10 percent 51 % for Reagan to 41% for Carter. The other 7% voted for
John Anderson, and the remainder voted for other people.
Ironically enough, Iran gave the hostages back on the day Reagan was inaugurated. This was
because Jimmy Carter froze Iran’s assets, and it turns out governments really need their assets
and their money.
Corporate Elites 846 Reagan’s cabinet and personal Coalition of supporters were rich people
and corporation leaders. They all believed that Capitalism would lead to more economic growth,
and that the government did not need to do anything at all to fix the economy.
“Neoconservatives” 846 A second of Regan’s followers were neoconservatives, people who
believed that Radical Change was to blame for destabilizing the economy, American Life, and
stuff. Their main goal was to reaffirm Anti Communist values and went against “political
correctness”.
Imagine those “anti woke” twitter people but in the 1970s. That’s a pretty good way of putting it.

[PAGE 242]
Populist Conservatives 846 The Populist Conservative group was a group of people suspicious
of a secret power manipulating the government?? They believed that Kissinger, the
Rockefellers, and other people were manipulating American Society.
They voiced often common fears of centralized power and influence, and a fear of a secret
powerful government limiting freedoms.
Uh WHAT?????? Bet you a tenner that they also believed that it was jewish people doing that
because all those kooks are raving antisemites.
“Reaganomics” 846 Reagan believed in “Supply Side Economics” which operated on the
assumption that the reason why the economy was dying was because of too much taxes, which
reduced the amount of money people had to invest into companies. This led to Reagan
reducing taxes to corporations and wealthy individuals in order to encourage new investments.
These rich people and corporations would reinvest their money, which would TRICKLE DOWN
to the people or something.
What.
Well clearly me as kha’zix sitting on 6/0 stealing enemy adc’s 300g shutdown and support’s
150g is me just letting the money trickle down to you guys.
Deregulation 847 Reagan also deregulated a lot of American society, leading to the
development of more public land, the reduction of Environment Protection laws, and less
enforcement of civil rights laws . In addition, implementation of safety standards on roads was
reduced. Reagan believed that having the government interfere less with society would be
better for the economy.
Soaring National Debt 847 It was not better for the economy. In fact, Reagan fucked up so bad
the amount of debt Reagan accumalted was more thant the US government had EVER
ACCUMULATED IN ITS ENTIRE HISTORY . So much for trickling down.
Clearly our debt will trickle down to China.
Welfare Benefits cut 847 The Debt had a lot of causes, such as the rising cost of programs like
Medicaid and Social Security. A lot of the people who were young when these programs were
implemented were reaching social security age at this point, which turned out to be a LOT OF
PEOPLE. Also the tax cuts made it harder for the government to be able to pay out social
security. Also also Reagan increased Military Spending by a fuckton for some reason.

[PAGE 243]
SDI 848 Strategic Defence Initiative. The US was scared of foreign powers using nuclear
weapons from outer space to attack the US (it would be a lot less detectable), so they started
the SDI, or as most people call it, Star Wars to counter the threat. It FLOPPED. HARD. The
irony behind it all is that TODAY we have brought back something similar, being the US Space
Force. (george lucas tried to sue over the name star wars because he didn’t want star wars to
be related to anything IRL)
Reagan Doctrine 849 Reagan Doctrine was basically Ronald Reagan directly attacking
communism by funding anti-government militia/rebel groups that would hopefully provide an
offense vs anti American/pro-Marxists regimes that showed relationships to the USSR.
Terrorism 849 - Terrorism was very common during this time, especially with third world
countries struggling with political, economy and social issues. Small groups would advance their
political aims by using terroism, often attacking: airplanes, political buildings, cruise ships, and
malls. They also yoinked a bunch of Western hostages to scare the western world.
Mikhail Gorbachev 850 The final leader of the USSR, Mikhail Gorbachev was bringing the
USSR to a state that was perceived as more acceptable in the late 80s, allowing for cool stuff
like more freedoms/rights, free speech/open criticism, and most importantly; showing up in a
fucking badass Pizza Hut ad
Pizza Hut Gorbachev TV Spot Commercial :60 International version
Gorbachev also made sure to part ways with a LOT of the satellite states which had wanted
independence from the USSR for a long time. Overall, Gorbachev really tried to modernize the
deteriorating USSR, but in the end the country was in such bad shape that…
Tiananmen Square 850 Nothing happened on Tiananmen Square in June of 1989. Seriously
though, I don’t really know why this is a term considering the textbook does not tie this part of
the textbook to any sort of US history.
If you somehow don’t know, in June of 1989, Chinese college students went to Tiananmen
Square, which is the square right outside of the forbidden city (building where the emperor used
to live) requesting for better living conditions as dirt poor college students (if you have 70s
Chinese immigrant parents you can probably ask them about their college experience. My
parents recall living in a room barely the size of my bedroom while making pennies), and
because of some questionable government decisions, the Chairman, Deng Xiao Ping approved
of the Chinese military to send armed soldiers and TANKS to the square, with orders to open
fire if necessary. There is no public # of how many people were killed (mainly because the CCP
denies that anything ever happened on that day), but the # is said to be in the hundreds, even
scraping the thousands (from footage/pictures of the aftermath). This leads me into a little stupid
fucking rant on just how terrible the CCP is at actually governing it’s people, covering up your
mistakes is SUCH a shit way to deal with shitty history, mistakes should be learnt from and by
censoring past mistakes it doesn’t really help you at all.

[PAGE 244]
Dissolution of the USSR 850 …on christmas day 1991, the USSR collapsed, leaving the future
of Russia to be decided.
Savings and Loan Crisis 851 The textbook doesn’t really cove2r this (one sentence in fact, not
even covering exactly what happened), but basically Ronnie Raegan got away with WAY too
many crimes due to his popularity as president (actor president, remember. This is how Trump
has a cult following as well), and one of these was the Savings and Loan Crisis, in which due to
Raegan’s mass deregulation, banks were able to basically scam the shit out of people and as
such a number similar to like $124 billion dollars were lost out of everyday American citizens .
Iran-Contra Scandal 851 Raegan. Sell. weapon. To the Iranian revolutionary government, which
the US was not supposed to be doing. Even worse, the US gov was found to be using the
money from these weapon sales to fund Nicaragu an Contras. Something to note here is that
this is not the first or the last time we will see the US funding groups that it really shouldn’t be
(you ever wonder how the Taliban, ISIS, and Al Qaeda got their money?)
Political Gridlock 852 George W Bush’s domestic policies were met with mostly unhappy
sentiments, because he promised to get rid of the federal debt which had been building up for a
while (thanks Nixon/Reagan!), while not imposing any new taxes, so people were really
wondering how in the fuck this would work.
1990 Recession 852 Remember the whole Reagan deregulation thang? Well this has come to
bite Reagan and his oh so beloved corporation in the ass, because now the US and it’s
corporations are in massive debt, leading to the 1990 recession, which hit the US extremely
hard since so many corporations with working class employees had to file for bankruptcy.
Invasion of Kuwait 853 (This talks about Operation desert storm) Saddam Hussein-led Iraq
invaded Kuwait, which the US didn’t really like, so Bush decided to counter the offensive by
sending in 400 thousand US troops . The offensive ended pretty soon (thanks to the help of
intense bombing campaigns), and the US lost apparently just 141 casualties to Iraq’s 100,000.
Kuwait was considered the end of the whole US shabang in the West Asian region, but as we
know that was most definitely not the case. We left-hooked the shit outa Saddam with GPS, our
fricken superior air force and navy, and our love for oil. For those who don’t know! The left-hook
strategy was literally just moving west of Iraq. Yeah. That was it and we won the war.

[PAGE 245]
Bill Clinton 854 Since everybody kind of expected Bush to win the democratic candidacy again,
nobody really ran against him. Besides 2, young Arkansas governor Bill Clinton and…
Ross Perot 854 … T exas billionaire Ross Perot, who was popular at the start but then lost
popularity for some unknown reason (thanks textbook), so he withdrew.
Election ended with Clinton by the way. You already know that though if you’ve paid attention
before once in your life.
William Jefferson Clinton 857
Can you guys do me a quick favor? Analyze this passage. See if you can see the name “William
Jefferson Clinton” ANYWHERE besides the blue term. Yifei…William Jefferson Clinton is Bill
Clinton’s legal name… Contrary to popular belief Bill is actually not a very common legal name
oh.
New Business Practices 861 After Stagflation, Bush’s presidency marked a revival of the US
economy (not incited by Bush, but Bush’s timing was in that period). Companies were investing
a lot more in technology, and most importantly, they were getting cheap labor, which was good
for big corporations but terrible for union workers.
Technology Industries 861 Digital technology made it possible for an enormous range of new
products: computers, the Internet, cell phones, digital music, all that. The technology industries
created many new jobs and produced new consumer needs. But they did not create as many
jobs as older industrial sectors had.
Development of the PC 863 Whoopee Ians getting one of these soon! With Intel’s development
of the computer processor in the 70s, there was plenty of room for tech companies to try and
tinker with a public personal computer for home use. The first iteration was the Apple PC, and
later the IBM PC.
ARPA 863 The ARPA was the Advanced Research Projects Agency.. It funneled federal funds
into scientific research projects, many of which were defense related. This was due to the
emergence of the internet, which drastically ramped up the availability of information and
communication.
World Wide Web 863 I think we all know what this is. For those cavemen living among us, this is
basically the system in which information is stored and published on the internet. It drastically

[PAGE 246]
optimized both the distribution and retrieval of electronic information. A guy named Tim
Berners-Lee, a brit from Geneva introduced it. (saying the acronym WWW is longer than just
saying world wide web)
Social Media - In the 2000s, tech led to the rise of social media like LinkedIn, YT, Facebook and
Twitter followed by Instagram and Tik Tok. These guys changed the way people communicated,
shared info and did business. They also became important tools for political movements and
campaigns but were also good at spreading misinformation.
Critics of Intervention - Criticism of globalization and US interventionist foreign policy grew after
the Cold War. They didn’t like it cuz it caused job loss through free trade, poor labor conditions
in developing countries, environmental damage and increased corporate power at the expense
of common people.
Critics on the left said the US used the Gulf War and Iraq War to protect economic interests.
While those on the right said that the US was losing control by getting involved in Somalia and
the Balkans.
Globalization Protested - The World Trade Organization, International Monetary Fund and World
bank were seen as these bad guys turning non-western economies into Western ones,
increasing poverty and debt, and cutting public services in exchange for loans.
Big protests such as the 1999 Seattle WTO meeting, Genoa in 2001 and other protests at DC
showed people were pissed.
Rise of Islamic Fundamentalism - Iranian revolution in 1979 began the rise of Islamic
Fundamentalism. Lots of new anti-west movements spawned in Islam, with extremist groups
using terrorism to destabilize govs and be mean to the west.
Origins of Terrorism - Terrorism came from the French revolution but by the 20th and 21st
century it became a big issue. The Beirut barracks bombing, embassy bombings and Oklahoma
City bombings were all examples of US getting terrorists attacks. Lots of people thought
terrorism was an international thing, but after 9/11, they got pretty serious about it.
Economic Progress for African Americans 865 For the black middle class, which in 2000-2010
constituted over half of the African American population of America, progress was remarkable in
the decades after the high point of the civil rights movement. Families moved into more-affluent
urban and suburban communities, and the percentage of black high-school graduates going
onto college was the same as that of white high-school graduates(Admittedly, there was a
smaller proportion of blacks than whites who completed high school).
The “Underclass” 865 Even though many Black families were moving out of lower income areas
and getting better jobs, there was still a large portion (⅓ of the Black population) that didn’t get
the same fortune as their peers, and their issues only got worse. More than 60% of this

[PAGE 247]
“Underclass” was unemployed, less than half did not graduate high school and around 40% of
households were headed by a single parent. In addition, introduction of drugs into low income
neighborhoods ruined the lives of many. The sources for the drugs ranged from gangs, criminal
organizations, and most strangely: the Federal Government.
Opioid Crisis - When doctors began giving patients opioid painkillers, people began overdosing
and dying cuz addiction exists. After the gov put their regulation stuff on it, people turned to
heroin and other illegal drugs, worsening the problem. From 1999 to 2019, 500k people died
from overdoes and cost the US 80 billion dollars in healthcare, lost productivity and law
enforcement.
AIDS Epidemic 866 AIDS is a product of HIV but they spread out a lot more. It hit the gay
community particularly hard since AIDS is passed through bodily fluids and affected them the
most. Due to the fact that the US government really didn’t give a rats ass about the LGBTQ+
community it led to hundreds of thousands of gay men dying without any sort of support since a
lot of hospitals would refuse to treat them. In addition, because of this, you had a LOT of people
just straight up dying out in the streets, and this is something that I learned from my old English
teacher who was there for the epidemic, he recalls seeing people particularly in SF just straight
up dying in the middle of the street.
NAFTA 857 North American Free Trade Agreement. It got rid of American trade borders with its
neighbors in Canada, Mexico, etc. Later Clinton also got hold of the G(y)ATT, which was the
General Agreement on Trade Tariffs, which is a really big trade agreement overseeing trade
between 153 fucking countries.
Failure of Health-Care Reform 857 Clinton’s most ambitious goal was to rework healthcare in
the US, appointing his wife Hillary to do the job. She proposed to have the US cover healthcare
costs for the people, but due to popular backlash it was immediately put away.
Clinton Vs Dole 858 Bill Clinton was up versus Robert Dole in the 1996 Presidential election.
Clinton would end up winning this election. Not much to say here its just another presidential
election term, one of the last as well.
READING QUIZ#11 INFO ENDS HERE
Budget Surpluses 859 Bill Clinton negotiated with a hostile Republican congress on a plan for a
balanced budget, which passed late in 1997. By the end of 1998, the federal budget was
generating its first surplus in 30 years.
Monica Lewinsky 859 Gave Clinton head. After getting the gluck gluck 2k from the young intern,
Clinton was ratted out and eventually he denied and lied about his relationship with Lewinsky,
which was the big inciting reason for his impeachment.

[PAGE 248]
Impeachment 859 The house judiciary committee approved two counts of impeachment: lying to
the grand jury and obstructing justice. It then moved to the Senate, where the first trial since
Andrew Johnson of the president began in early January. This ended with a decisive acquittal of
the president
Kosovo 859 In 1998, a civil war between the Kosovo separatists and the Yugoslavian
government broke out. NATO responded by bombing the Yugoslavians, and the US government
which had been heading the NATO bombing campaign viewed the eventual ceasefire as a
massive success.
Florida 859 The very decisive state of the Bush and Gore election, everything came down to
Florida. While Gore had the popular vote, both candidates were short of the 270 electoral votes.
However, due to a weird printing method on the ballot, it was hard to decide which candidates
people voted for.
The Supreme Court’s Decision 859 As mentioned earlier, Florida fucked up counting in the
votes, so to have it figured out, so a recount was done. However, when the deadline for the
recount came through, the recount was not complete, so instead, The Florida secretary of state
put in Florida’s votes for Bush. Now the vote was neck and neck 266(Gore)-271(Bush), so the
Supreme Court made the final decision, and decided 5-4 in favor of Bush winning.
George W. Bush Verus Al. Gore 859 Another Presidential election term, George W Bush, son of
George HW Bush was the Republican candidate vs Al Gore, the Democratic nominee.
Personally I would have wanted to see Al Gore win because in the later years Al Gore was
actually a pretty cool dude but you can’t and go change history.
Bush Tax Cuts 860 His tax cuts were a central part of his campaign. He said he would use the
budget surplus to fund tax reductions, and he barely won the passage of the largest tax cut in
American history–$1.35 Trillion.
Okay so on the subject of Bush. Due to him being a very big conservative, this guy tried to
revert a lot of progressive changes. First he refused to support a renewal of the assault
weapons ban(which was really effective at stopping mass shootings), and then he proposed a
CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT to ban gay marriage. What the actual fuck man 😭
Al-Qaeda - A f ter 9/11, the US launched the “war on terrorism” which targeted Al-Qaeda and
Osama Bin Laden. The US overthrew the Taliban but didn’t get bin Laden. Laws like the Patriot
Act allowed long detentions (especially in Guantanamo) without trial and raised concerns about
civil liberties. Guantanamo bay was very controversial with trump keeping it open and Biden
wanting it gone.
Hurricane Katrina - It damaged the shit outa the Gulf Coast. It pissed off the people since the
fed gov’s response was too slow which led to loss of Republican majorities in both houses.

[PAGE 249]
Stimulus Package - Due to the financial crisis of 2008, Obama passes the stimulus plan to boost
the economy through: tax cuts, job creation and more gov spending. Some people said it helped
while some people said it increased debt or wasn’t strong enough. Obama also created the
Affordable Care Act (obama care) in 2010 to expand health insurance coverage, which required
that all Americans have insurance.
Tea Party - Conservative movement that didn’t like Obama’s Affordable Care Act and pushed for
lower taxes, less gov spending and a smaller government. It didn’t do much other than help
elect many candidates for midterm elections. Led to more political polarization (no more “I don’t
care about which president is in office”) and gridlock in Congress or whatever that means.
International Relations - Obama ended the Iraq War while increasing troops to Afghanistan to
reshape foreign policy. He then unsuccessfully promoted peace between Israel and Palestine.
He won a Nobel Peace Prize for promoting diplomacy tho so good job to him.
Occupy Wall Street - Obama’s opposition from conservatives and the left led to movements like
Occupy Wall Street which protested economic inequality and growing wealth gap. The supreme
court case: Citizens United v. Federal Election Commission allowed corporations and unions to
spend unlimited money on campaigns which increased the influence of money in politics.
NSA Controversy - Edward Snowden leaks classified NSA docs which revealed government
surveillance of phones and internet data. He then fled the US cuz he was seen as a traitor.
Diplomatic efforts - The US made a nuclear deal with Iran and other nations to limit Iran’s ability
to develop nuclear weapons in return of reducing economic sanctions. Obama also restored
relations with Cuba since the Cuban revolution. He supported the Trans-Pacific Partnership
(TPP) which boosted trade, increased exports and created better jobs for Americans.
Political Gridlock - During his final term, political gridlock made it difficult for Obama to pass
major laws. Efforts to pass gun control laws and immigration reform were all blocked by
conservatives or Republicans.
Miller says that anything beyond this point is pretty irrelevant for Period
8-9’s reading quiz. Anything beyond this point is Trump and beyond, but
obviously take caution, this is just a suggestion. Your choice whether to
study this portion beyond or not. To future Juniors, please confirm this is
true with your teacher since the textbook may change.
Domestic policies -
Trade -

[PAGE 250]
Foreign policy -
Travel ban and immigration policies -
Election interference -
Impeachment -
“Right-to-Life” Movement 866 Opposition to abortion was creating a powerful grassroots
movement. The right-to-life movement, as it called itself, found its most fervent supporters
among Catholics; and the Catholic Church itself lent its institutional authority to the battle
against legalized abortion.
“Pro-Choice” Movement 867 Pro-Choice wasn’t really about abortion since abortion was already
legalized, but more about the social right for women to decide whether or not to keep a child or
not (it is them that have to endure 9 months after all). Clinton was pretty pro-abortion/pro-choice
so for a good period the Pro-Choice movement got a lot of attraction, but afterwards in the Bush
administration it became increasingly risky since Bush was openly anti-abortion.
Human Genome Project 863 In 89, the US government approved 3 billion dollars to go to the
Human Genome Project, which would try to analyze and reproduce human genes.
Women’s March and #Me Too -
Social Justice - Black Lives Matter -
Counter-protesters -
Pandemic response -
Vaccines -
Challenges to the 2020 election -
Attack on the Capitol -
Trump’s Second Impeachment -
Immigration policies -
Economic policies -
Richard Nixon Reincarnates as Ice Spice 869 One of the many things that Richard Nixon was
known for saying, including but not limited to: “Fortnite”, “Among us”, and “skibidi gyatt ohio
rizzler” was that he would like to be reincarnated, specifically as a person of a different gender,

[PAGE 251]
of a different race, and more importantly, as a hip-hop artist or rapper. Coincidently, Richard
Nixon died in 1994, and later, was reincarnated as famous hip hop artist Ice Spice in 2000,
displaying his political power and the important social role that reincarnation played during this
era in response to the war in Afghanistan. As a presidentially awarded “munch”, I feel qualified
to say that he was simply in his “hot girl summer” during the watergate scandal, and that all
those allegations were simply hating on his cuntiness.
Kanye West is in this book (pg 921)
It was fun writing this uh yeah - yifei + rest of OG gang