[PAGE 2]

READING QUIZ#1 INFO STARTS HERE
Ordinances of Discovery - A law passed by the Spanish government that disallowed the
Spanish from military conquering and invading the Indigenous Peoples of America. This was to
incentivize the missionaries sent to the Americas to convert the Indigenous peoples of America
to Christianity rather than outright kill them because Christianity was a great way for the church
(and as a result the crown) to take control over a population.
Catholic Missions/Missionaries - People sent by the church to convert the Indigenous People of
America to Catholicism. Oftentimes they would have churches protected by a military fort, which
they called “Presidios”, which is where the Presidio (REMEMBER THE PLACIDIUM PRESIDIO)
gets its name from.
St. Augustine - Established in 1565. St Augustine was the first permanent Spanish settlement in
what is now the US. It originally served as a military outpost and headquarters for unsuccessful
military campaigns against the Indigenous Peoples of America?? (what does this mean dawg
💀) it means they wanted to kill natives.
Pueblo Revolt of 1680 - The Pueblo colony established by the Spanish forced the Pueblo
people in what is now Santa Fe to work long and hard with no benefit (Encomienda System),
while also forcing the Pueblo people to discontinue celebrating their culture. As a result, the
Pueblo people revolted and due to the pressure from this revolt, the Spanish were forced to
rework and almost entirely remove the Encomienda System, replacing it with a system in which
the Pueblo people were able to work a lot less for more benefit, and also freely celebrate their
cultures, as long as all newborn Pueblo people were baptized. This greatly increased the
strength of the relationship between the Spanish and Pueblo.
Spain’s Vast Empire - Spanish empire was massive, and more so economically than in any
other way. Due to their success in colonizing the South Americas, the Spanish forced the
Indigenous people there to dig for silver and gold in the Encomienda system, which allowed
them to produce literally 10x more free of the silver and gold than the entire world COMBINED.
That is nearly a 91% hold of the entire global silver and gold market at the time. Because of this,
Spain was able to conquer and take over so many portions of the world in the forms of colonies,
or if they were feeling generous trading outposts.



[PAGE 3]

Rigid Royal Control - Spain’s colonies in the Americas were controlled by the Spanish
government, and the Spanish government/crown made it a priority to make sure these colonies
were under strict control. (COME BACK TO LATER)
A Collision of Cultures - the contact between the Old World and American Indians in which both
groups absorbed aspects of the other, although different colonial powers interacted with Natives
differently, such as allowing them to continue speaking their own language or not, converting
them, etc.
Increasing Levels of Exchange - Refers to how heavily the Europeans and Indigenous peoples
affected each other, both positively and negatively. Europeans brought over livestock such as
horses(super important to the Indigenous people), while also bringing diseases that wiped out
entire populations of Indigenous people such as smallpox, influenza, measles, chicken pox,
mumps, and typhus. The Europeans also brought mass destruction to both the Indigenous
people and the surrounding environment. Indigenous people introduced new farming methods,
crops such as corn and potatoes, tobacco. In terms of the negatives, some Indigenous groups
were aggressive towards the Europeans, some even launched attacks on European
settlements(after being attacked first by the Europeans).
Demographic Catastrophe - Entire Indigenous populations were nearly or entirely wiped off the
face of the earth, with 95% of the Hispaniola population dying to disease or Christopher
Columbus and his weapons. These death counts are so high that it is believed that it far
outnumbers the Black Death’s death toll, which at the time had killed a third of the population of
Europe. This unintentional(but sometimes intentional) weapon caused genocide to nearly 90%
of all Indigenous populations that would maintain contact with the Europeans.
Deliberate Subjugation and Extermination - The Spanish used smallpox as a weapon,
devastating many indigenous peoples and weakening their armies.
New Crops and Agricultural Techniques - Because the crops that were brought to the Americas
would not prove to grow well or at all on American soil, the Indigenous people lended a hand by
introducing the Europeans to all sorts of different crops that we are very familiar with today, such
as potatoes, beans, peppers, tomatoes, sweet potatoes, pumpkins, squash and especially, corn,
which even today is in around what..75-80% of the world’s processed food(easy sugar). In
addition, the Indigenous people also taught the Americans unique farming techniques that
worked especially well in the Americas, such as girdling, where the trees are stripped of the
bark around the base, or setting fire to the roots so that the trees are devoid of nutrients.
A Complex Racial Hierarchy - Spanish Empire/Colonies implemented a racial hierarchy for the
Spanish colonies, with the White Spanish at the very top of the hierarchy, the mixed Mestizos,
who were quite common in the middle, and lastly of course the Indigenous peoples at the
bottom because uh. Europe + racism = <3 💪 (I love racism 😍😍😍😍(Jk don’t cancel me
guys 🙏))
Varied Labor System - European labor was mostly provided to by (basically enslaved)
Indigenous peoples, who were either full on slaves or were indentured servants who were…also
basically slaves because their servitudes were that long. However, this proved to be not enough
to fully break a profit or meet labor costs, so the Spanish started, you guessed it, importing
African Slaves (and indentured servants). (Who'da thunk it 😱)
Ghana and Mali - In Africa, there were 2 extremely large empires that had a large control and
reach over Western Africa, these 2 being Ghana and Mali. These 2 empires compromised their



[PAGE 4]

economies mostly of ivory, gold, and slaves who were mostly PoWs of the lands that either
empire conquered, criminals, or people who had big debts they couldn’t pay off. These 2
empires were extremely sophisticated and became the hubs for learning and development for
much of Africa, drawing in Europeans to explore the area and trade as well.
Benin, Congo, and Songhay - Benin, Congo, and Songhay were 3 smaller but somewhat
sizable countries in Africa that were South of the goliaths that were Ghana and Mali. These
kingdoms had economies of woven fabrics, ceramics, wooden and iron goods, and crops and
livestock. It is thanks to these economies that the African continent was able to function at such
a high pedigree at the time.
Matrilineal Societies - African states were mostly Matrilineal, which means that land ownership
and social aspects were mostly controlled by women. In marriage, it is expected that the man
moves into the woman’s family and home. Heritage was traced by mothers, and property was
inherited from mothers rather than fathers. Although the leaders of African states were all men,
the successors would always be the child of the former leader’s eldest daughter. In society,
women also played a significant role, with there often being split councils for women’s affairs,
Ain terms of gender equality, while European states were calling women witches for knowing the
cube root of 8. (T
f 8) (2) (Nah it can’t be two…)
Growth of the African Slave Trade - Due to the increasing need of African slaves to work
plantations in the Americas, the larger African empires saw this as an incredible financial
opportunity to export more African slaves to the Europeans, going to war with even more
kingdoms. At first, the Portuguese had control over the slave trade, then the Spanish, Dutch,
and lastly the English. These slaves were exported all over the Americas, but the initial most
popular destination was the Caribbean, because a majority of the people there had already
been wiped out by disease so the Europeans couldn’t forcefully enslave them, and also
because sugar, the primary export of that area, was super labor intensive.
John Cabot - An Italian explorer, first cunt to come to the New World after the Norse.
Commissioned by the British . John Cabot was mainly looking for a NorthWest passage through
the continent to get to what is now the Pacific ocean, but proved to be unsuccessful because it
didn’t exist.
The Enclosure Movement - A growing trend in England where bigtime landowners saw that wool
and sheep were a lot more profitable than normal crops due to higher wool demand (global mini
ice age from 1300-1850, we will see how this affects fur demand later), so they converted their
lands into pastures, and as a result kicked out the farmers who were there to farm crops,
sending thousands of farmers to homelessness, this was what was considered the “Enclosure
Movement”. who would have to beg for food and money, resorting to even robbing because of
how terrible their situation was. The English government did pass some laws to halt Enclosure,
but they proved to be unsuccessful, and with the majority of the English farms being used for
wool, the country found itself starving, with a population still heavily on the rise, giving even
more reason for the English to sponsor settlement in the Americas. Fields to Pastures
Chartered Companies - Group of investors form a company which is granted rights
by/incorporated into royal powers. Often the right for trade, exploration, and settlement (and
absolute control and rule over the area with no regard for the Indigenous populations that
already lived there :D)



[PAGE 5]

Mercantilism(wow never seen this one) - An economic policy that serves to maximize net profit
by cutting imports and maximizing exports and is state sponsored, as the idea of people
venturing out for goods and exports was not seen as a too popular option for governments to
sponsor in the past, but with the rise of the Portuguese empire it proved that mercantilism was
definitely the way to go . Supports national wealth as opposed to capitalism which is about
stuffing the pockets of a private individual or group.
Richard Hakluyt’s Argument for Colonies - Richard argued that colonies would create new
markets that would make England more rich. In addition, colonizing the new world would help
alleviate the overpopulation crisis undergoing in England.
Doctrine of Predestination - French Theologian John Calvin was an influential reformer after the
Protestant reformation led by Martin Luther. Him and his followers, the Calvinists(Boutta pull up
with my Yifeians) believed that a soul’s destiny was determined at birth for either salvation or
condemnation, and the only way to determine this was to see if you were useless to the society
around you or if you helped it, incentivising people to work hard to better the people around
them so that they could go, “aha! I am indeed destined for salvation!”
The English Reformation - A lot different from the Protestant reformation, the English
reformation was Crown vs Pope. King Henry VIII got pissy that he couldn’t divorce his wife
because he couldn’t get the son he wanted, so he broke England’s ties with the Catholic
church (And because he hated the pope(based)) , instating himself as the leader of Christianity in
England. Henry’s daughter queen Mary became queen of England and started a brutal
persecution of all those who did not convert to Catholicism, giving her the nickname of “Bloody
Mary” (Bloody Mary my beloved 😍) . England was basically in an insane religious turmoil.
Puritan Separatists - Protestants that became unhappy with the church due to the church’s lack
of reformation became the Puritans, because they wanted to “Purify” the church. Separatists
refers to the radical ideas that the Puritans had and how they wanted to become independent of
the Church of England, making them “Puritan Separatists”. This dissatisfaction with the Church
of England and the oppression and discrimination they received from the government and crown
in England gave them good reason to move to the American colonies, making them a large
portion of the population in America, and heavily impacting American colonies, especially those
more North such as Massachusetts.
Puritan Discontent - Queen Elizabeth’s successor James I antagonized Puritans, resorting to
random taxation(what a classic!), granting Catholics charters and favors. Because of this, many
Puritans saw the new land in the Americas as possibly a place that could prove to be of great
benefit to them as a recluse from England.
Subjugation of Ireland - Basically England says “It’s gamer time” and invades Ireland, calling
them “savages” and “uncivilized” (wow I wonder if they will say this to any other peoples and
ethnicities later on?!). This invasion brought fame to some people who governed over the newly
attained English colonies in Ireland, including a certain Sir Humphrey Gilbert and Sir Walter
Raleigh. Their violent tactics in suppressing the Irish populations would prove to inspire later
English tactics in the Americas.
The Plantation Model - The English were very unwilling to integrate into Indigenous society and
live alongside them unlike the Spanish and French, and as a result started their Plantations,
which were plots of land that were fenced off from Indigenous people(literally or figuratively) and
would serve as little plots of English society, which was inspired by the exact same model that



[PAGE 6]

was used in Ireland. Now lemme tell you why this is not the best idea: Ireland geographically is
a lot more familiar to the British, so growing crops and stuff is somewhat easy and doable, and
m.so is traversing the land and building on it. The American colonies are 4.4k nautical miles
away from England, and DO NOT have similar geography to England. You can see where this is
going can you…
Coureurs De Bois - Term used for French fur hunters/trappers. These guys didn’t actually
physically hunt the animals used for the furs and pelts they sold to Europe most of the time
actually, but acted as a middleman between the Indigenous peoples and Europe, making big
bank from the process, as not only could they charge a high price to the Europeans while
buying low from the Indigenous peoples, but the global demand for furs and pelts at the time
was incredibly high as as said before, the world is in a mini ice age from 1300-1850.
Henry Hudson - Pictures of this guy are not actually him! There are no real paintings of him that
actually (officially) exist today. Henry Hudson was an English explorer employed by the Dutch to
sail up the river which is now named the Hudson River because uh you know, Europeans. He
would eventually find the area that is now New York, and establish a Dutch colony in the
Americas.
New Amsterdam - New Netherlands became the new Dutch colony up North of the American
coast, with New Amsterdam as its largest and central town, which will see staggering growth in
its lifespan. The colony was able to survive thanks to the implementation of the patroons
system, where landlords were granted ownership of lands in the Dutch colony in exchange for
the promise they would bring more people to the Dutch colony.
Spanish Armada - The Spanish Armada was basically the Spanish military fleet. This fleet was
extremely feared as the sheer size of it made it incredibly strong and dangerous, and at the
time, the Spanish and English were at conflict/butting heads with each other, and to spice things
up (idfk im tired), the Spanish decided to bring the Armada across the English channel to
directly attack the English, which failed to a much smaller English fleet. This greatly weakened
the Spanish economy and global presence because the colonies that were held by the Spanish
were government sponsored and controlled, and the military going to shit kinda destroys your
economy and that of your state owned colonies 😬. On the flip side, this gave the English the
100% go ahead to start developing their own colonies.
Gilbert’s Expedition to Newfoundland - Sir Humpherey Gilbert got permission from Queen
Elizabeth for 6 years to freely travel and take over any un-European-claimed(?) in the Americas.
Gil was unsuccessful in finding a spot, his ship sinking and lost at sea, but his buddy Walter
Raleigh kept on pushing with his ship, eventually finding himself also 6 years to freely travel
through the Americas to find a spot to build a possible settlement, and that he did, sending a
group of men to the Americas, where they found out from captures Indigenous peoples that an
island named Roanoke could possible serve as a spot for a colony.
The First Roanoke Colony - Richard Grenville left settlers on the island of Roanoke which had
earlier been found by Sir Walter Raleigh’s men, and promptly destroyed the Indigenous people’s
village over a minor theft, and went back to England for some unspecified reason, leaving
behind a couple colonists (thanks textbook). Sir Francis Drake then arrives in Roanoke with
supplies meant for the remaining colonists, taking them home cuz they were starving and dying.



[PAGE 7]

Attempt 2! Raleigh sends more people this time, led by John White. John White after dropping
the folks off and helping out a little goes back to England, where his return to the colony is
delayed due to a Spanish English conflict, and when he goes back he finds the colony
completely deserted, with nothing but “Croatoan” written on a post, which in the textbook has no
meaning but a Lemmino video has some PRETTY damn good evidence that all the Roanoke
settlers moved to a nearby island, where they integrated into the Indigenous people’s society
there (as is evident from some of the Indigenous people having blue eyes or lighter skin).
New Colonial Charters - This charter divided the American colonies in 2, the London group got
the charter to the south, and the Plymouth colony got a charter for the north. May or may not
have contributed to the very very different culture and political view differences in the North and
South (wow is that more Civil War foreshadowing??)
Early Problems - James I had 144 men board 3 ships to the American coast and into what is
now Chesapeake and up the James river that they named, establishing Jamestown. The area
sucked though, swamps, thick woods, and disease such as malaria ravaged the initial settlers.
The settlers brought no women with them, and everybody was too focused on getting gold for
some odd reason. Only thanks to the help of the nearby Indigenous people that they were able
to survive, who taught them to grow crops and how to cultivate the land.
The Starving Time - 600 more settlers came to Jamestown, including women and children. This
proved to be not the best idea though, since in 1609 the winter was uh. Out for blood. Due to a
severe lack of planning, any agriculture whatsoever, and malaria, everyone was starving and
dying and also pretty miserable because of starving and everyone dying. The Jamestown
settlers ate literally anything, dogs cats, rats, snakes, toadstools, the soles of their shoes, tree
bark, and even dead human bodies. The winter was so harsh, that of the 6-700 people there,
only 60 lived, however, thanks to some awesome stuff we call lies and deceit, more migrants
came, expecting to find the Jamestown colony in full swing, but instead finding nothing but 60
starving and probably mentally scarred settlers.
De La Warr’s Harsh Discipline - Tobacco was found out by the English, and as a result the
English quickly started to grow tobacco to fund their colony, which they became crazy rich off of.
However, the leader of the plantations, De La Warr proved to be a very unpopular and strict
leader, often flogging, hanging, or “breaking on the wheel”(basically you are tied to a large
wooden wheel, and uh. I don’t need to finish that but you get the idea) anybody who wouldn’t
work when they were supposed to.
Wasn’t very popular, so his successor tried using positive reinforcement. Work and you get
land!!! Yay!!!!
Emergence of the Tobacco Economy - John Rolfe decided to try to crossbreed a South
American and North American tobacco (Illegal! ) and with the help of the Indigenous people,
succeeded, making an incredibly efficient and addictive tobacco plant that would make him
RACKS in the global economy at the time, and anyone that had the bravery to travel over the
the Americas to grow tobacco. This would cause the English to move deep into the Indigenous
land in prospect for more land to grow more tobacco, breaking the once good relationship
between the Indigenous people and the English.
The Headright System - Headrights were 50 acre guarantees given to anybody that would settle
the American colonies by the Crown of England. This was to incentivize the people of England
to move to the Americas so that not only England would get rid of a growing problem of the

