[PAGE 8]

population not being able to feed itself, but also so that they could rake in some of the tobacco
cash. Europeans loved it! Indigenous people? Not so much…
Suppression of the Powhatan Indians - The Powhatan Confederacy, a collection of groups of
Indigenous peoples that were brought together by the chief Powhatan lived in the
Virginia(Jamestown) area obviously long before the English arrived. Sir Thomas Dale led
extremely violent and successful attacks on the Powhatan Confederacy members, capturing
Pocahontas(not actually her real name btw), the daughter of Powhatan, and got married to John
Rolfe, who brought her back to England where everybody was shocked that Powhatan, the
daughter of the chief of an entire confederacy decided to marry a lower class person like John
Rolfe, which is kinda ironic considering you’d think people would be more shocked that John
Rolfe would marry and bring back someone the English considered “savages”. Pocahontas was
actually a great asset for both the Powhatan and the English, and helped soften relations
between the English and Powhatan by being a translator.
Demise of the Virginia Company - The Virginia Company, the company that had been
sponsoring so many of the Jamestown pursuits had actually failed to satisfy the crown and the
conflict with Indigenous peoples there turned out to be pretty unpopular back at home, so
James I revoked their charter, with the Jamestown colony becoming under control of the English
crown up until 1776.
Indian Agricultural Techniques - The Indigenous peoples of America native to the East Coast
had many agricultural techniques that hard carried the Europeans settlers, such as girdling
trees, which removes the bark from the bottom of the tree or by setting fire to the roots, which is
actually quite smart now that I think of it. This is like the 5th time I’ve said this but as always, the
Indigenous people taught the Europeans how to grow crops like corn, potatoes, and tomatoes,
which were extremely important, especially corn, yada yada.
Proprietary Rule - The Maryland colonies had started due to a father’s wish for a land he never
visited to become a recluse for English catholics, his name was George Calvert, and his
successors would do good on his wish. Cecilius Calvert, his son, received a charter from the
king that allowed him control over Pennsylvania, Delaware, and Virginia, and Calvert had
“Proprietary Rule” over the land, in which he was the “true and absolute” lord (so basically 100%
control) of the land, and all he had to do was pay an annual fee to the crown.
Religious Toleration - Because of the number of Protestants leaving England, Maryland’s
population actually became majority Protestant despite it being meant more for Catholics, so
Cecilius Calvert, the leader at the time of Maryland established a Religious Toleration act,
allowing for any and all Christians to celebrate the sects they chose to.
Virginia’s Westward Expansion - Virginia continued to move Westward into Indigenous
controlled areas, and border conflicts were very common (wow who would’ve thought it the
Indigenous people don’t like their land being taken). The Indigenous people however were no
match for the English brutality and guns, so Virginia’s Westward expansion proved to be pretty
smooth (and by that I mean incredibly bloody for the Indigenous) and quick.
Berkeley’s Autocratic Rule - Sir William Berkeley, the governor of Virginia, becomes an Autocrat,
which means that he is the person in power, and people who are loyal to him will stay in their
positions of government. This leads to people being severely underrepresented, especially folks
who live in the backcountry.



[PAGE 9]

Backcountry Grievances - So this guy named Nathaniel Bacon is part of Berkeley’s council, but
he’s against Berkeley for numerous reasons. First of which being that Bacon and his posse Not
just his posse, but most of the people in less developed areas of Virginia. are constantly getting
attacked by indigenous people, which leads to Bacon disagreeing with Berkely’s more passive
rules about the indigenous people. Secondly, Bacon is upset that he’s not part of the inner
government, and that he’s not making any money from the fur trade.
Significance of Bacon’s Rebellion - Nathaniel Bacon, a wealthy aristocrat and Cambridge Uni
graduate had arrived in Virginia when it was under the control of William Berkley. Bacon was
ambitious and hated Berkley because Berkley didn’t let him have a portion of the fur trade that
was shared between the English and Indigenous people, in addition, Bacon was also not
allowed into the inner governing circle of Virginia, making him PISSED. After a Doeg
(Indigenous people) attack on an English plantation, Bacon led his own counter attack on the
Doeg, where he proclaimed himself a rebel, as he did the counter attack on his own and without
permission. Now, Bacon had a reason to rebel against Berkeley. Him and others that were
unhappy with the landlords of Virginia, mainly lower class workers, indentured servants, or
slaves, not exclusive to race so both English and African peoples joined in, led a revolt on
Berkeley, which the outcome is just completely left out in the textbook :) thanks. THE
SIGNIFICANCE: It proved that no matter what race, low income people were low income
people, and when the system they are in clearly oppresses them and forces them into a certain
financial class, they will unite. This would lead to slavery being tied to race in fear of the African
and English low incomes uniting again to bring the high income aristocrats and landlords out of
power. The thought was, by separating the English from African slaves, the English would not
see the Africans at the same level, and it worked I guess. cooked system, but we all knew that
already
Religious Repression - Puritan Separatists, who wanted to cut ties with the Church of English
and wanted to be able to celebrate their own Christian theology were continuously persecuted
and the American colonies did not seem like a bad idea.
The Mayflower Compact - Some Puritans in England, unhappy with the treatment they had at
home decided to move over to the American colonies, traveling aboard the Mayflower, they left
Plymouth(ENGLISH PORT, DON’T MIX IT UP), and although the destination was supposed to
be the Hudson River mouth, they found themselves in what is now Cape Cod, arriving in an
area named Plymouth which had been named by Captain John Smith some years before. That
was confusing, let me sum it up: Pilgrims leave Plymouth, England, and arrive in Plymouth
Americas, which got its name PRIOR to the Pilgrims arrival by John Smith who had already
been there before. The Mayflower Compact just basically said that the Pilgrims would establish
a civil government and would be loyal to the Crown of England.
Relations with the Indians - Ah but there’s more this time in comparison to the 20 other times
I’ve talked about Indigenous English relationships. Some Indigenous people that were captured
by or decided to accompany the English learned and picked up English proved to be of great
help by translating for the English settlers, and sHoWiNg HOw tO pLaNT cORn, PotAtoeS, etc.
Some of these awesome dudes included Squanto and Samoset. Squanto was a Pawtuxet, Ms.
Bellas told us this wild story of how Squanto got kidnapped to England, learned English, and
somehow made it back to the same area but his tribe died of disease so he was kinda just
there. Samoset was uh hurr durr look guys I’m APUSH textbook and REFUSE to admit my



[PAGE 10]

mistakes or lack of specific information so instead I will leave this information up to mystery and
speculation jaja :DDDDD good luck on a bs test you gotta pay for!!!! Back to what I was saying,
thanks to these guys, the Wampanoags became allies with the English, and baddabing
baddaboom first thanksgiving in 1621 yahoo!
Also more specifically, the Pilgrims had a relatively positive relationship with the Wampanoag
tribe, especially given Squanto’s abilities as an interpreter.
William Bradford - Plymouth chose William Bradford as the leader of the Plymouth colony,
receiving a charter from the Council of New England so that he could freely do whatever he
pleased in the Plymouth area.
Massachusetts Bay Company - Back in England, many Puritans had had enough(and I’ve had
enough with telling you that Puritans are pissed) thanks to Charles I, who was the successor of
James I, who really was not a fan of anybody that wasn’t a Roman Catholic, and would imprison
Puritans just for their beliefs, although not as much as some other English rulers, so a large
group of them moved over to what is currently Massachusetts to start a new colony. These guys
were mostly merchants, as were most Puritans, and as a result started the Massachusetts Bay
Company. Now how did they even get permission to go to Massachusetts? Well, they simply got
a charter from King Charles I, who was completely unaware that these guys were Puritans. The
company made a large portion of revenue from fishing and the other early American colony
economy stuff like tobacco, corn, trading with the Indigenous people, and so forth.
John Winthrop - John Winthrop was selected as the governor of the company and as a result
the Massachusetts area, and under his rule Massachusetts started to grow like crazy, although
most likely due to the insane work ethic that a majority of the Massachusetts Bay Company had,
with Boston being quite a decently sized town, and other towns popping up like crazy, such as
Charleston, Newtown(later Cambridge), Roxbury, Dorchester, Watertown, Ipswitch, Concord,
Sudbury, the list goes on.
The Congregational Church - Since the charter given to the Massachusetts Bay Company was
one issued by the King (obviously), the company was forced to keep ties with the Church of
England, in which they uh…kind of didn’t care…not that they didn’t cut ties, they just ignored the
fact they did. Each church in the charter was basically independently run, and each church
Joyce Gong
6:21 PM Dec 17
i have 2 other finals i need to study for asap, so im going to do something brief for each some of
them for now and fill it in later tn
10 of 142
11
10
9
8
7
6
5



[PAGE 11]

4
3
2
1
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
Summary
Outline
Headings you add to the document will appear here.
centralized themselves and handled their own matters, making them the “Congregational
Church”.
A Theocratic Society - The Massachusetts colony was considered a “theocratic society”
because oftentimes the government would come to the aid of the church in the form of helping
out ministers, who backed the church but had no official political power. This made it so that
anybody who opposed the church or the Ministers would be punished or treated the same as
breaking a law, so it was kind of easy to say that Massachusetts was simply run by the churches
that it supported.
Growing Religious Dissent - More non-Puritans came to Massachusetts, and these people could
not vote because they were not considered Puritan “saints”. Most of these folks left for New
England or Connecticut. One important person in particular that left Massachusetts was Thomas
Hooker, who was a minister of Newtown (later named Cambridge) due to the ways he defied the
Massachusetts government, and left for Connecticut, establishing Hartford, and those Hartford
guys later established two other towns.
Roger Williams - Roger Williams was basically this one guy who nobody agreed with but
everybody loved. It’s like that one uncle with different political views but always treats his kids,
nephews and nieces with good food and gifts at reunions. Roger Williams was a Separatist, and
argued that the Massachusetts church should cut ALL TIES with the Church of England, which
would definitely put a big target on Massachusetts’ back. He also called for the Church to
completely separate from the state and government, which also didn’t fare too nicely with
everybody in Massachusetts. This did not mean he didn’t have followers however, and promptly
moved to Rhode Island after getting a charter from English Parliament, even getting permission
on the charter to “liberty in religious concernments”.
Anne Hutchinson - Anne Hutchinson was a woman that was highly educated in the study of
Theology, and had some at the time radical thoughts about the church. She antagonized many
of the Massachusetts members for not being part of the “elect”, basically saying “you ain’t fit fo
yo role foo”. After displaying pretty reasonable evidence and gaining a very large following of
both men and women, the Massachusetts government decided to intervene, putting her on trial



[PAGE 12]

for heresy, where she was convicted for being a “woman not fit for our society”. She also moved
to Rhode Island and then New Netherland. Although her life would be ended short by an
Indigenous attack, her legacy would live on as seen in the next term.
New Hampshire and Maine - John Mason and Fernandnino Gorges would get the rights to the
New Hamsphire land and would split it up while Mason is known for attracting the earlier settler
there.Some time after that, John Wheelwright, a disciple and follower of Anne Hutchinson led
some other like minded people to Exeter, which is located in New Hampshire, with more people
later following, with New Hampshire breaking off from Massachusetts, and Maine later in 1820.
Importance of Indian Assistance - The Indigenous people helped with agriculture, teaching the
English how to farm the crops native to the Americas, such as corn, potatoes, tomatoes, beans,
sweet potatoes, squash and pumpkins, with corn bEiNG tHe mOsT ImPoRTaNT. They also
learned agricultural techniques such as annual burning so the soil received fresh fertilizer. The
Indigenous people were also the primary trade partner for the Europeans, trading iron pots,
blankets, metal-tipped arrows in contrast to the flint or obsidian arrows used by the Indigenous
people, guns, and unfortunately alcohol to the Indigenous people in exchange for…THE
TEXTBOOK DOESN’T SPECIFY??????
Shifting Attitudes - The English first viewed the Indigenous people with a begrudging admiration
as they were able to so easily and fluidly handle the foreign American land, but as the English
started to move more into the Indigenous territories, the English started to view the Indigenous
peoples as “savages” and “heathens” because apparently fighting back when someone is trying
to take your land is something that would give you that title. Great job guys.
The Pequot War - This and the next term will be about conflicts between the Indigenous and
English, since the textbook has been hyping this up ike a new Marvel movie, never giving us
any information but telling us “oh there was conflict!”. ANYWAY; conflict broke out between the
Pequot people and the English in Connecticut over the fact that the Pequot were trading with
the Dutch, so the English allied themselves with the Mohegan and Narragansett (rival groups of
Pequot), killing just about the entire Pequot people, so the English achieved their goal of being
able to trade with the remaining 3 Pequot people. Great job English dudes but yet again :D
King Philip’s War - Something to clear real quick: King Philip was actually the leader of the
Wampanoags (yes the ones from the Pilgrims section earlier), and was not a European, and
instead was actually named Metacomet sounds like an undertale oc ( ur so right wtf) by his own
people, so that’s what I will call him out of respect because King Philip was a nickname given to
him by the English and I hate them for making me sit here for 5 hours writing ONLY ABOUT
THEM in this index.
This is a lengthy conflict, so I have broken it into 2 paragraphs, the first (the one you just read)
being an introduction. Metacomet basically told himself and his people that the only way to
properly handle the oncoming danger that was the Massachusetts Englishmen from taking their
land was only by attacking first. So for 3 years, the Indigenous organized and armed themselves
with Flintlock Muskets (whoa what's that term below this one!!). The Wampanoags led attacks
on a string of Massachusetts towns, killing thousands of European males. Although this proved
to be a major setback to the Massachusetts, the Europeans fought back with incredible ferocity



[PAGE 13]

and won over the Wampanoags, thanks to a ton of help from the Mohawk people, who rivaled
the Wampanoag, who helped organize attacks, and also kill Metacomet.
Flintlock Musket - This one will be easy thank the lord. This is a key term because the
Wampanoag, who had done a ton of prep for the attacks on Massachusetts had armed
themselves with specifically Flintlock Muskets. Now you might be thinking, “why is this special?
The Europeans had them too” And you’d be right, BUT, the English opted for the slower and
clunkier matchlock rifle because it was what they were a lot more accustomed to as the
Flintlocks were newer and unfamiliar. The Flintlocks were lighter, faster, and a lot easier to use,
so the Wampanoags, who had no experience with any sort of rifle in the first place obviously
opted to use the objectively better option, allowing them the destruction of the Massachusetts
colonies that was discussed before. In fact, the Matchlock rifles were so shitty, that on most
occasions the Indigenous people could easily match the rifles battle prowess with a good old
fashioned bow because it was just that much quicker even though it was not as accurate or had
as much firepower.
Tldr Because of guns, a lot more people died in King Phillip’s war.
READING QUIZ#2 INFO STARTS HERE
Origins ENGLISH CIVIL WAR - Charles I was unpopular with parliament because he uh…
dissolved it so the parliament members were all unemployed all of a sudden. This launched
England into a Civil War, with those who were on the Crown’s Side, named the Cavaliers , led
by a trio of Lebron James, a young Kyrie Irving and a veteran Kevin Love and those who were
on Parliament’s side, the Roundheads , or as some would call them, the Golden State
Warriors, led by the first ever unanimous MVP in league history, Stephen Curry, some guy who
looks like a Chipotle employee named Klay Thompson who would put up 37 points in one
quarter, and a DPOY candidate in Draymond “Technical Foul” Green. Eventually, the
Roundheads would prove to win, beheading Charles I , i n spiring other countries to do the
same (why does it smell like baguettes , cigarettes, and constant anger in here? Charles II,
the son of Charles I would eventually come back after being exiled for the throne, which he got.
He quickly set about trying to reform England, attempting to bring about Religious Tolerance, but
failing due to Protestant and Parliament backlash.
New Proprietary Colonies - Ok I’ve calmed down, Charles II does actually have something to do
with the US part of APUSH, specifically, he granted a bunch of charters to Carolina, New York,
New Jersey, and Pennsylvania, making these the New Proprietary Colonies as said in the key
vocab here.
Incentives For Settlement - New settlers to America were often given rewards for making the
journey as to incentivise more people to settle the new frontier, such as the idea of political
freedom , where laws were made by a representative assembly, kind of like a senate. Examples
include: House of Burgesses.
Fundamental Constitution for Carolina - The colony of Carolina was founded by Ashley
Cooper , soon to be the Earl of Shaftesbury. He convinced investors to finance his trip to
Carolina, and he set out with 300 people to Carolina, surviving with 100 people left, naming 2



[PAGE 14]

rivers on the way, the Ashley River, and Cooper River . He then went on to draw up the
Constitution for Carolina with the help of John Locke the Philosopher . This constitution
would help decide how to distribute land and design a social order for Carolina .
North and South Carolina - The Carolina colony was extremely large and the Northern and
Southern regions would not get along as they were completely opposites, with the Northern
portion being a lot more isolated and virtually without slaves, and the Southern portion being
filled with rich soil and as a result, African slaves and a larger population(wow I wonder where
this is leading?? The south was also a prominent trading area for cotton and other goods, and
traded with Barbados a lot, giving slaves in exchange for resources. South Carolina also used
Barbados’ slave based society with white plantation owners on the top. (hmm i wonder what
effects this has on the modern day) Definitely not the bloodiest conflict in American history or
something that was fought over Slavery). Farmers from both sides would often get into conflict,
and in 1729, the King of England just said fk it, y’all are splitting.



[PAGE 15]

Week 2 vocab terms (pages 51-117 (estimated)):
*pages 50 - 85 according to live agenda
™ t iamat best component? k id named serrated dirk
Capture of New Amsterdam pg51 - Dutch and English were under heavy competition with each
other in the colonies, competing over trade territory and commercial gain. English in particular
saw the Dutch as a major problem, and would come to resent the Dutch colonies for being a
wedge between the North and South English colonies. Because of this, the English sailed into
the New Amsterdam port and took over the New Amsterdam area under the Articles of
Capitulation.
Establishment of New Jersey pg52 - New Jersey was founded when one of James II political
allies was given a charter for the land from James II. This charter would prove to be somewhat
unsuccessful in getting profit for the colony, and eventually New Jersey became a royal colony
under James's rule. New Jersey, similar to New York, was incredibly diverse. However, New
Jersey’s industry basically stayed as just farming and didn’t really move forward anywhere.
The Society of Friends pg52 - The Society of Friends was the formal name for the Quakers who
would eventually inhabit Pennsylvania. They were also Protestants who were prosecuted in
England looking for a new place to live without fear of a crown cracking down on them. Quakers
rejected the ideas that people had predestined fates and instead chose to believe that there was
good in everybody and that everybody deserves a chance. Another cool thing about these folks
was that they really believed in the idea that women in the church could have the same
positions and power as men. In Quaker churches, the common tradition was for people to sit in
a circle and shout whatever came to their mind that could be interpreted as the word of God. A
bit unorthodox but a nice fresh change and also definitely a more liberal and accepting style.
Bruh society of friends is such a good name fr ong no cap 💯 no kizzy brah
William Penn pg53 / Pennsylvania Founded pg53 - Quakers, who were also a Christian sect
moved from England to the American colonies. Quakers were unwanted basically everywhere,
and in Rhode Island they were even heavily physically abused. It was only in present day
Pennsylvania where they managed to escape prosecution. I think it’s good to mention that
people didn’t like them for being pacifists and for supporting gender equality and for being nice
to people regardless of class (feelsbad). Some guy named George Fox who wanted to make a
colony in Pennsylvania was able to make friends with a bunch of different rich quakers, one of
these being William Penn. Also important to mention Penn had a bunch of favors with King
Charles II to cash in because his dad was a cool guy or something. William Penn was able to
turn Pennsylvania into a prosperous colony and quickly became the center for the English
colonies in America. Philadelphia, the largest city in the colony, set an example for the future
cities in America, featuring rectangular streets. Penn made sure to buy land from the Indigenous
people nearby instead of outright conquering and taking over their land due to Penn’s quaker
beliefs.
Charter of Liberties pg53 - Penn at the time, had become Proprietor of the Pennsylvania colony
and his position was actually quite unpopular despite him being quite the good leader. People
called for a reduction in his power, and in William Penn fashion, he ordered for a charter from
the crown so that he could rule Pennsylvania with an assembly, greatly reducing his own and



[PAGE 16]

the Proprietor’s power. Assemblies would be formed for every county in Pennsylvania, allowing
for better governing in the colony.
(man its tough for the quakers huh? From what the book says these guys are pretty darn nice
by colonial standards and they had a fire name too)
The English Caribbean pg54 - Before 1600, the main destination for the English in America was
actually the Caribbean, where they would eventually move out because the Spanish colonies
surrounded the English ones, resulting in the English colonists opting instead to move to the
mainland.
Imperial Conflict pg54 - Before the Europeans arrived in the Caribbean, there were already a
decent number of Indigenous peoples living there, such as the Arrawaks, Caribs, and Ciboney.
Columbus’s first exposure to the people of the Hispaniola island basically left the entire
population wiped out by European diseases. Eventually, more European empires came to the
Caribbean, including the Dutch and English, who served as major competition for the Caribbean
area for the Spanish.
READING QUIZ#1 INFO ENDS HERE.
Sugar and Slavery pg55 - Sugar is a super labor intensive crop, and the Caribbean was full of it.
Europeans looking to get an easy buck imported over a bunch of Indentured servants to work
the field, and eventually made the switch to African slaves because they were cheap and easy
to maintain. :(
Slave Revolts pg55 - Seven major slave revolts and the fact that the African slaves easily
outnumbered the White slave owners resulted in many White slave owners in the Caribbean
becoming paranoid of revolts and very closely and heavily monitored their work force and would
also punish them a lot more severely :(
Unstable Societies pg56 - English colonies setup in the Caribbean were unstable and would not
last long. This is because most of the English colonists had no plans to last in the Caribbean,
and saw the Caribbean as just an easy way to get some quick cash through exporting sugar
cane via slave labor. Most of the colonists were young single men, and intermarriage between
the colonists and their slaves was nonexistent. The infrastructure for a European society was
also not present. ALSO EVERYONE WAS DYING. That was a slight issue with the whole stable
society thing y’know?
Connection to British North America pg56 - The Caribbean and North American English
colonies were somewhat connected, as they formed trade networks with each other, with sugar
and rum being moved up North in exchange for products that the TEXTBOOK DOES NOT
SPECIFY. The Caribbean plantations also provided inspiration for the North American English
colonies, which is also the reason why slavery was so widespread in the South :))
Spain’s Northern Colonies pg56 - Spanish colonies North of Mexico and Florida often attracted
more religious minorities including Catholic missionaries and independent ranchers, and also
Spanish troops were looking to defend the Northern borders of the Spanish colonies. The most
famous of these colonies has to be the New Mexico colony where the Pueblo revolt happened.
(refer to Pueblo revolt in the 1st quiz section)
California pg56 - Spain already had colonies in California before they started to really ramp up
the California expansion, but after Spain saw the French and Russians attempt to expand into



[PAGE 17]

California for furs, the Governor of Baja California was ordered to expand North by setting up
more outposts. These outposts are called “Presidios” btw. Outposts such as San Diego,
Monterey, San Francisco, Los Angeles and Santa Barbara were very successful trading
outposts for the Spanish to take control of.
I m portance of the Spanish Borderlands pg57 - The Spanish borders along the Southwest were
incredibly important as they became prosperous cities and colonies for years to come, as is
evident by current day California. The Spanish made sure not to displace the Indigenous
despite not viewing them as equals and definitely not treating them well. The Spanish, unlike the
English, did not see the Indigenous peoples as obstacles that had to be overcome but rather
obstacles that had to be avoided.
Hostilities in the Southeast pg57 - Although no real conflict happened between the Spanish and
the England during this time, the Spanish and English still thoroughly hated each other. Proxy
battles were fought with each other via pirates, until the English pirates ransacked the St
Augustine outpost which was under the Spanish’s control. It was looking like the conflict
between the English and Spanish was going to genuinely happen, and a cold war started, with
the Spanish giving freedom to any African slaves that promised they would fight for the
Spanish.The english encouraged native americans to join them and stand up against the
spanish missions. Eventually the english were successful and confined the spanish to st
augustine and a little bit of land around that which forced the spanish to intermarry with africans
or native americans cuz there was so few of them. Soon after the 7 year war, the spanish were
out and the english acquired florida sending a lot of settlers over there.
James Oglethorpe’s Vision pg57 - General James Oglethorpe was a member of Parliament and
also a war hero apparently. James sought to put a barrier to protect the English American
colonies from the Spanish on the Southern Border. Oglethorpe, who had started the settlement
just North of Florida which is now Georgia was also quite the philanthropist, and when word got
out that Queen Anne’s War had started, Oglethorpe, who obviously was a general and had to
defend the Georgia colony. Knocking out 2 birds with 1 stone, Oglethorpe chose to have the
many English prisoners locked up for unfair or false debts freed for them to fight for the
American colonies against the Spanish.
Georgia’s Military Rationale pg59 - To make it easier for Georgia to defend itself, the military
consolidated more land in order to have a more centralized and compact defense. The Georgia
colony made sure to exclude African peoples entirely, free or slaves from its defense so that
they not only did not have to accommodate and be responsible for them, but also so that they
wouldn’t be able to revolt against the English and join the side of the Spanish, who were open to
freeing slaves in exchange for military service.
Transformation of Georgia pg60 - James quickly saw Georgia’s situation as a colony
deteriorate, and it was clear to him that his way of ruling things nearly as a dictatorship was not
going to work. His people complained that the lack of slavery made labor extremely expensive
and hard, and the overall growth of the colony was basically stagnant. James removed the ban
on slavery later, and eventually Georgia became a Royal Colony.
Conflict of Accomodation pg60 - The “Middle Grounds” were English colonies that although
living next to the Indigenous peoples and not directly invading their land, they still lived quite



[PAGE 18]

apart and seemed to be near conflict with them at all times. Basically they weren’t constantly
invading Indigenous land, but they were not living amongst them on super friendly terms like the
French.
Mutually Beneficial Relations pg60 - The French, who were looking to the colonies more as a
financial benefactor made sure to maintain good relationships with the Indigenous people in the
areas they created colonies. They respected Indigenous customs and traditions and recognized
the tribal chiefs amongst the Indigenous people, allowing for the French to have the best initial
relationship with the Indigenous people. The French would also often marry into Indigenous
families in order to maintain good relationships with the Indigenous people.
The Shifting Balance pg60 - As America gained its independence from the English and saw the
need to expand Westward, the English colonies destroyed many of the good relationships they
had with the Indigenous people, causing the Middle Grounds to all but never exist.
Mercantilism pg60 - bruh.
The Navigation Acts pg61 - As the English government found that the American colonies were
making a majority of their profits by selling to the Spanish and Dutch, Parliament made sure to
do something about this so that the English economy would be able to better expedite the
colonies’ earnings. They implemented the Navigation Acts, a collection of 3 laws that would
attempt to prevent the American Colonies from trading to non-English countries:
1. The first one implemented would prevent the English from trading with any ships outside
of English ships, preventing any exports from major colonies from leaving the English
territories
2. The second one saw that all the products exported out from English colonies had to
pass through England, allowing them to tax all the ships that would come through the
English channel.
3. The third law just went ahead and told customs that they had to crack down on anybody
who wouldn’t follow the navigation acts and told people to follow them and all of that.
Sir Edmund Andros pg62 - Governor of the New England Dominion put in place by the Catholic
ruler James II of England. Because of his desire to implement the anglican church and his
loyalty to the English crown, Andros became a very unpopular governor. When news of James II
being overthrown reached the New England area, it was only a matter of time (and a short
amount of time at that) before Andros too, was overthrown.
The Dominion of New England (I put this here) - James II put the New England area into a
Dominion, combining the government of all of the governments of the area, including
Massachusetts, New York, and New Jersey under one government. You would think this is a
somewhat ok thing, but one thing you gotta understand is that at this time, the colonies don’t
actually view each other as one unit of colonies, but rather their own independent individual
colonies.
Glorious Revolution (I put this here) - The Glorious Revolution was NOT an armed conflict. After
James II started receiving quite a lot of hate for causing fear amongst the protestant population
in England and the colonies, James II fled to France out of fear of what the people would do to
him after his Grandpa had been beheaded for this exact reason. James II had a child though,
and her name was Mary II and was married to William of Orange. Now as always, the textbook
doesn’t specify SHIT, so I’m gonna go out on a limb here and say that Mary II became Queen
because she was already living in England and had opted to stay there while her dad left for



[PAGE 19]

France, allowing her to easily take the throne. But either way, all you need to really know is that
James II is gone, Mary and her husband are IN.
End of the Dominion pg62 - During the Glorious Revolution, James II had his throne overthrown
by Mary II, his daughter, and her husband, William of Orange. These 2 made a ton of reforms as
they were Protestant (James was Catholic) and got rid of the Dominion of New England.
J acob Leisler: basically a dude who was sick of not being accepted into the ruling class of new
york even though he was a prosperous merchant and part of a prominent dutch family. So after
hearing abt the glorious revolution, he raised a militia and captured the fort from the previous
governor francis nicholson. He tried to stabilize rule for 2 years but was unsuccessful and when
william and mary chose a new governor, political enemies charged him with treason and he was
hanged. Fierce rivalries after this ensued between leilerians and anti leislerians which
dominated ny politics for years.
John Coode’s Rebellion pg63 - Thanks to James II falling from power, John Coode, a very
anti-Andros protestant was able to easily start a revolt against lord Baltimore (NOT GEORGE
CALVERT). Calvert family ownership -> Protestant, under the crown
Glorious revolution and the uprisings in ny + maryland had more to do with local faction and
religious stuff than a larger vision. In fact they gave the crown more authority than every with a
lot becoming royal colonies, causing them to be more of britains imperial system than ever.
Immigration and Natural Increase pg66 - People started to rapidly immigrate to the NewEngland
colonies. People of all sorts of different backgrounds, such as rich aristocrats and artisans
settled in the Americas, but for the most part the American colonies consisted of majority
English laborers.
Realities of Indentured Servitude pg67 - Although Male Indentured Servants was granted
freedom when their servitude was over, the other things they were promised such as land, tools,
and clothes for a quick start were actually not often given to them, ending up with a bunch of
homeless single males roaming the streets of New England. As for Female indentured servants,
most of them would immediately marry once they left their servitude, allowing them to live a lot
more comfortably than former male indentured servants.
Exceptional Longevity in New England pg68 - As diseases and the risks for people in the New
England area decreased, life expectancy increased. In fact, the life expectancy for the average
New England resident got so good that it was nearly the same as 20th century American
residents, with one generation even averaging out to 70 for both men and women.
More Balanced Sex Ratio pg69 - Due to the demand for more women in the American colonies,
more families sought to give birth to more children to extend the longevity of the American
colonies, and more female immigrants started to move over. Indentured servants in America
also had a large portion of their population be female, so overtime, the 3:1 or 4:1 ratio of men to
women slowly became 3:2 or 1:1.
Male Authority Undermined pg69 - Because of the desperate situation in the colonies,
responsibilities were not locked to one gender, resulting in a stronger female presence in the
colonies in jobs and responsibilities. In particular, the household saw that most peacekeepers



[PAGE 20]

and authoritative figures in the family became women. This is because while most fathers were
out working tobacco fields or lumbering, women would have to deal with a bunch of children,
and peacekeep and settle disputes amongst the kids. The reason for the large number of kids
was 1. The demand for kids in the colonies, and 2. Many couples in the colonies were already
the 2nd to 3rd relationship for the people, and would bring their children along with them. (the
reason for widows and single dads was because of the dangerous work environment of the
american colonies)
Greater Independence in the South pg70 - Because females were so rare in the American
south, it was oftentimes the females that got to decide who to marry and could pick and choose
out of a wide selection of stinky gross impoverished English plantation owners. This allowed
females more authority because they knew the demand for them was so large.
Revival of Patriarchy pg70 - As the gender ratio began to even out and the situation with
diseases and risks in the American colonies had basically all but died out, American families
and society returned to full patriarchy similar to that of their European counterparts.
Life Spans pg71 - In the north in New England, life spans were notably longer than their
western counterparts, due to a mix of good climate and lack of disease. This led to parents
being alive longer to impart their views on their children. Arranged marriage becomes more
common due to the fact that parents are alive to arrange them.
The Patriarchal Puritan Family pg71 - Also because parents are dying less, Puritanism plays a
key role in the economy and culture of the Northern Colonies. In a Puritan society, women are
seen as weak and inferior, and must submit to their male counterparts. And there are a lot more
parents and old people alive to enforce these ideas
The Middle Passage pg71- The Middle Passage is the term that refers to the journey slaves
took from Africa to the New World. Oftentimes slaves were packed into the bottoms of ships and
chained together for what could be months. Many died of disease, dehydration, and starvation
Growing Slave Population pg72 - Starting in 1700, the population of slaves in the Americas
would increase rapidly. By 1760, over 250000 slaves are in the Americas working. They often
outnumber Europeans in some areas
Uncertain Status pg73 - At first, the status of Slaves in the Americas was much less defined
and as bad as it would be. Some treated slaves as servants, and in many places slaves worked
with white servants. By the 18th century, slaves would be treated more like how we know it;
really really really badly.
Slave Codes pg74 - Laws that limited the rights of Africans, basically leaving them completely
under the control of their masters. In some areas, murdering your own slave was even legal.
The defining factor of Slave codes was that they applied to any black person, of course this was
judged by the skin color of the person.
Huguenots and Pennsylvania Dutch pg75 - Ugh why do I have the french again -w-. The
Huguenots ( hugenuts) were French Calvinists, who, with a royal proclamation, allowed them to
become practically a state within Roman Catholic France. (The name of the proclamation was
the Edict of Nates of 1598). However, the French government said haha no more edict for you
and revoked it in 1685, and the Huguenots began to leave. About 300,000 left France in the
following decades. A small number went to the English colonies in North America. (The book
then goes on to talk about Germans. I don’t wanna write all that down.)



[PAGE 21]

Scots-Irish pg76 - Ah yes, the Ulsters. I remember this.(MASSIVE CAP) Scottish Presbyterians
who settled in northern Ireland(Woah no way! Scots-Irish!!!) They prospered despite the bare
soil and constant struggle to suppress the Catholic natives. Then, in the first years of the 18th
century, Parliament did a funny and banned the import of all products that make up the Northern
Irish economy. At the same time, the English government pretty much banned the practice of
the Presbyterian religion like Clash from r6 when she was first released. The English gov also
insisted on conformity with the Anglican Church. After 1710, many of the long-term leases of the
Scots-Irish expired, and the landlords doubled or even tripled the rents. Thousands embarked
for America, where they were often coldly received and were pushed to the outer edges of
European settlement. They claimed the land with no regard as to who “owns” the land, and
suppressed the Natives brutally. .
Tobacco pg77 - One of the main Cash Crops of the south, everyone was growing tobacco. The
problem was, everyone was growing tobacco so there was often an extreme excess of tobacco
that couldn’t be sold. This leads to the price of tobacco being extremely volatile.
Indigo pg78 - Another cash crop, it is a source of Blue dye, which was in great demand in
Europe. It also was convenient because it could grown in areas where rice couldn’t, and its
harvest times lined up nicely with rice.
More Diverse Economy in North pg78 - In the North, agriculture was THE(no sarcasm here)
most important part of the economy. But unlike in the South, the colonies in the north were less
dominated by farming. The northern economy was more diverse than the economy in the South
because conditions for farming were less favorable there. Northern New England in particular
had a very hard time farming, the cold weather, hard rocky soil made it almost impossible to set
up a large-scale farming system that the southern colonies were creating. Southern New
England and the middle colonies had an easier time farming. New York, Pennsylvania, and the
Connecticut River valley were the chief suppliers of wheat to a lot of New England and even
parts of the south. Yet even in those places, a substantial commercial economy emerged
alongside the agricultural one. Nearly every colonist engaged in a certain amount of industry.
Sometimes these industries provided families with extra goods they could trade or sell.
Craftsmen and artisans established themselves in colonial towns as cobblers, blacksmiths,
riflemakers, and more.
Saugus Ironworks pg79 - The Saugus metalworks facility was the first effort that the colonists
made to establish a significant metals industry in the colonies. After iron ore deposits were
discovered in the 1640s, the colonists tried to transfer Iron technology already present in
England to the colonies. The Saugus works used water power to drive a bellows, which
controlled the heat in a charcoal furnace that melted the ore. As said ore melted, it trickled down
into molds to then be inscribed with dark magic to make tools. While it was a technological
success, it was a financial failure, and the Saugus ironworks closed its doors in 1668. (Book
goes on to talk about metalworks)
Extractive Industries pg80 - More important than manufacturing were industries that exploited
the natural resources of the continent. By the mid-seventeenth century, the flourishing fur trade
of earlier years was in decline. Replacing it were lumbering, mining, and fishing. These
industries provided commodities that could be exported to England in exchange for
manufactured goods. They also helped produce the most distinctive feature of the northern
economy: A COMMERCIAL CLASS(allegedly thriving)



[PAGE 22]

Myth of Self-Sufficiency pg80 - Unlike popular belief, very few colonists were self-sufficient. The
colonists purchased whatever they needed or could afford. Most farmers who grew grain took it
to centralized facilities for processing
Shortage of currency pg80 - Due to the lack of safety and stability in the colonies, there is no
real currency that remains stable or usable. A lack of coinage also leads to people using
bartering or trading goods as currency.
Triangular Trade pg80 - In simple terms, this describes the trade of Sugar, Rum, and Slaves
among England, the Americas and Indies, and Africa. However this is heavily simplified, and
there was a lot more trade of a lot more goods, such as rice, molasses, guns, manufactured
goods, tobacco, and other crops and resources. (more info about it in the packet we got on
1/9/23)
Emerging Merchant Class pg81 - The Merchant class was formed by a group of adventurous
entrepreneurs. For reasons unbeknownst to us(cuz the book sucks), they formed the merchant
class. This class enjoyed protection from foreign competition within the English colonies, as the
British Navigation Acts had excluded all non-British ships from the colonies carrying trade. This
merchant class had access to a market in England that needed American products like furs,
timber, and ships. But this market did not satisfy all their commercial needs. Many of the colonial
products could be easily produced by England themselves, and they needed another market
outside the British Empire. So they did a funny and ignored laws restricting colonial trade to
England; many merchants developed markets in the French, Spanish, and Dutch West Indies,
where prices were often higher than in the British colonies. The profits from this illegal activity
enabled the colonies to import the manufactured goods they needed from Europe.
Growing Consumerism pg 82 - In the 18th century, consumerism saw its way into American
society, especially in cities. This was widely due to the financial stability most city families found
themselves in in colonial America thanks to growing industries such as ironworks or tobacco
plantations. Consumerism also began to grow in the American colonies thanks to the early
stages of the industrial revolution. The industrial revolution contributed to American
consumerism because European nations started to produce high quality goods and products
that could be shipped to America, and thanks to the high income of most Americans in cities,
many Americans saw a good amount of luxury European goods displayed or in use in their
homes.
Social Consequences pg 82 - Thanks to the growth of consumerism, Americans saw a reason
to not only purchase high quality goods, but act like they were of a high class as well, leading to
a trend in which high class Americans saw to get educated and to act refined or
“gentlemanlike/ladylike”, buying English magazines on how to act like the richest of the rich
back in England, commissioning portraits of themselves and their families, got fancy furniture,
and put a fair amount of effort into appearing fashionable for the time.
Social Mobility pg 82 - Social mobility refers to the way that people move up and down in the
social hierarchy that is present in society back then and today. For example, England was
unable to have a high social mobility rate, since land was super scarce for how insanely high the
population was at the time. Land ownership was almost nonexistent and the people who did
own land would often be at the top of the financial/social ladder for ages until they for some
reason got rid of their land, simply because land means power. Whereas in the colonies, it was
the exact opposite. Land was abundant and people were scarce, allowing for better social



[PAGE 23]

mobility amongst the people, as people could easily obtain land and with enough smart choice
and hard work(slave labor) could easily move up the social ladder. This shows how social
mobility was a lot more present in colonial America in comparison to the rest of the world.
Vagaries of the Plantation Economy pg 83 - Real quick; “vagaries” refers to a change in
behavior for those who don’t know. Basically all this keyword is saying is that tobacco
plantations early on would always make either a lot of money or very little. This is because most
plantations were 100% reliant on the price of one crop, mainly tobacco. This weeded out the
bad plantation owners from the good ones, since the planters who were better would be able to
weather the storm and not have to worry about going bankrupt during bad times.
Stratified Southern Society pg 83 - Stratified in a social context refers to a hierarchical format,
where those who are the wealthiest are at the top with the most power, vice versa. In the South,
with how important plantations were, plantation owners with the most land could easily control
the people who worked on their plantations, including the smaller farmers who would work on
the plantations but without the smaller farmers, the plantation owners couldn’t turn a profit. Still,
the plantation owners were the richest out of the American South, and dominated the market
despite the small farmers and slaves making up the majority of the population.
Slave Culture pg 84 - ooh this was one of the more fun parts of the book to read since I never
knew about anything related to this, and it’s honestly just interesting. American slaves, due to
them being in close proximity with each other(in terms of those who worked the same
plantation) formed very close bonds with each other and developed an intricate culture unique
to slaves. This included things such as Gullah, a language that was a blend of English and
African languages as to not allow the slave owners to get in on all of their conversations, and a
distinct religion which combined Christianity and African religions. The textbook however, gives
0 examples which is just…wonderful. African slaves would also often start their own gardens
and farms next to the quarters where they would live to grow their own food, with the seeds
mostly being provided by the plantation owners or most likely taken/given from other farms.
Slaves often had such close bonds that even new slaves who were not in the families of the
slaves of the existing plantation would be welcomed as relatives and treated like family.
Stono Rebellion pg 85 - In 1739, 100 or so African slaves rose up and killed several white
people and attempted an escape to Florida, but eventually had some White people quickly
capturing them. This is important because it shows just how futile it was for African slaves to
attempt to resist the White plantation owners. Slaves would often escape, but upon capture
(which was common) they’d be sent back to their plantation where they would be SUPER
heavily punished. American slavery in the south was by far the worst that slavery had been at
any point in history, despite the history of slavery stretching all the way back to the first human
civilization. This established some new slave codes for 1740 (1705 was the first slave code
btw). (BTW this was the beating drums rebellion that we learned in class)
Patterns of Settlement pg 85 - Puritan settlements began drawing up “covenants”, a system in
which all of its members in the settlement were connected in “unity and harmony” and I bet like
God’s piss or something idfk. In this settlement, colonists would lay out a village with houses
around a central pasture, otherwise known as the “common”, and divide the fields and
woodlands of the town amongst its residents. This helped reinforce a strong sense of
community in Puritan societies in the Americas.



[PAGE 24]

Puritan Democracy pg 86 - Puritan societies ran on yearly town meetings in which a group of
adult males named the “selectmen” would discuss issues and problems regarding the
settlement. This was also decided based off of church membership status, those who were part
of the church would be among the elect, or “visible saints”, while those who were not would
need conversion, and were the “halfway covenant”
Population Pressure pg 86 - Because of the population growth of the Puritan settlements, more
and more people began to search for new land to farm and own. This caused people to move
farther and farther away from the community centers that Puritans had set up generations
before. This would cause people far away from their own community centers to feel the need to
build their own facilities such as churches, starting their own communities. This is kind of like
cell growth.
Generational Independence pg 86 - Despite Puritan societies being majority Patriarchy, in
practice this was just in name. Farmland was hard to work, and everyone had to chip in to help
feed the large families, wives and daughters too. Even though males still had a majority of the
control in a family, the voices of the females of the family were always heard out of necessity for
their work, and also obviously because they’re families and respect each other.
Salem Witch Trials pg 86 - The most infamous witchcraft cases in American history were served
in Salem Massachusetts, where hundreds of people were accused of witchcraft in the late
1600s. These witchcraft cases were inspired by the voodoo lore of the Indigenous peoples just
west of Salem. In total, 19 residents were put to death, and most of these were young
adolescent women at that :(. Expanding on this, it is important to talk about who was considered
a candidate for witchcraft back then. Any women who would show a fair amount of intelligence
in comparison to her peers (women were almost never given education past primary school),
women who were independent and owned land were also considered witches, although the
accusers oftentimes were probably really just looking to take the women’s land, not accuse the
women of any superstitious behavior. Women with no children and widows were also prime
targets.
Growth of Colonial Cities pg 87 - There were cities in the colonies. These cities did in fact grow.
In fact, By the 1770s the two largest ports in Philadelphia and New York has populations of 28k



[PAGE 25]

and 25k each. Wow! Middle colonies stay winning. Cities served as trading centers and as
markets for international trade.
Commercial and Cultural Importance pg 88- Cities were the centers of industry, with more luxury
and manufactured goods being imported and exported. For example, sugar and molasses from
the Caribbean were used to create valuable rum. Culturally, new problems like Crime, pollution
and Traffic began to happen. Also Cities tended to serve as hubs and centers for new ideas
both politically and scientifically. Coffeehouses provided spaces for people to debate n stuff.
READING QUIZ#2 INFO ENDS HERE
Roots of Religious Toleration pg 89 - Religious tolerance in America was at some of the best
and highest rates seen in comparison to Europe. This was widely due to the sheer amount of
people who were of different and unique religions (although a ok ll were Christian sects, barring
a couple hundred Jews, and the later millions of slaves with their own beliefs, but those guys
don't count in the colonial American consensus). The Church of England was the official church
for most of the colonies, but the power was greatly undermined due to laws and also the fact
that there was really just not a lot of people to enforce the Churches’ power
Anti Catholicism pg 89 - Protestants were so tolerant in fact that they hated the existence of
Catholics in their New World. This hate was less of a “we hate who you are go die” kind of hate
and more of a “We hate the pope and are you gonna rival us in power” kind of hate. There
weren’t enough catholics to really match the protestants, so they really just were discriminated
against in places like Maryland, where they lost their rights to office and to practice religion in
public.
Jeremiads pg 90 - This one has a sick title: Jeremiads were “Sermons of Despair” that were
head by Puritan ministers as a result of the weakening loyalty to the church that people had
developed. This effort to keep the church alive in Colonial America would eventually lead to the
Great Awakening, in which churches in the American colonies attempted to greatly reform the
church to appeal to a wider audience, and also because they just felt like the church needed
some reform
Old Lights and New Lights pg 91 - With the cool Great Awakening, as with all new things, some
people did not like change. This caused a schism between the “New Lights”, or those who had
adapted the teachings of the Great Awakening and the “Old Light” Traditionalists who didn’t
really want to change. There’s also this one part about how some New Lights hated education
but some didn’t??? Ok i guess.
Traditional Authority Challenged pg 91 - This term refers to the Enlightenment’s competition in
the minds of Colonial Americans to the churches’. Enlightenment started to catch steam in
Europe, and so did it in the colonies, people began to see the world for how it was and decided
to derive solutions and answers from their own minds rather than a singular God or supernatural
phenomena. People began trusting their own brains more, and thus a larger interest in politics,
education, and the economy grew, with more people interested in bettering the society around
them not just through the word of God but also by the better interest of everyone around them.
PERIOD 3 92 - 185



[PAGE 26]

High White Literacy Rates pg 92 - In America, there was an increased importance put on
Educating people and making sure they could read. Many Religious Communities created their
own schools in order to make sure people could read scripture, and many Trade Schools were
created so people could learn crafts. Many White Men were literate in the colonies, in fact over
HALF OF THEM by the Revolution could read and write. The large number of people being able
to read (like this text here) allowed for more Intellectual publications like almanacs.
Liberal Curricula pg 94 - Colleges in the colonies, such as Harvard, Yale, Princeton, Columbia,
University of Pennsylvania, College of Philadelphia, and William and Mary College just to name
a few, were basically all founded on religion and theology, more as means to train priests and
ministers. However, this did not stop many of the scholars within the institution from teaching
subjects outside of Religion, even some subjects that directly opposed it, such as some
sciences. This practice was in fact, backed and supported by the religious institutions that ran
the colleges. Some of these subjects included but are not limited to: physics, geometry,
astronomy(specifically Copernican astronomy), Rhetoric, Latin, Hebrew, Greek, mechanics,
chemistry, agriculture, government, commerce, modern languages, liberal arts, logic ethics, of
course theology, and the University of Pennsylvania was even able to open the colony's first
ever medical school
LIBERAL?????? :anger:
Smallpox Inoculation pg 94 - As everyone in the colonies knew due to the fact that literally like
all the indigenous people died from it, smallpox was seen as kind of a small big issue. But due
to the Enlightenment, more people were willing to try scientific experiments, like Inoculation!
Apparently some guy named Cotton Mather heard from his slave that giving people small cases
of smallpox led to immunity. So this guy tries it out, finds out it’s working in England, and
advocates for the Inoculation of people against smallpox. He did a pretty good job because by
the middle of the 18th century, Inoculation was a pretty common and widespread thing
Colonial Legal System pg 95 - Because of how far contact between the Americas and Europe
was, there was no real reason for the American colonists to follow the English law so closely. In
fact, there were many many laws that were changed in the American colonies to better suit the
needs and wants of the colonists. This is also due to the fact that there weren’t a lot of English
lawyers present, so the knowledge of the specific laws in England were scarce and hard to
come by, leading to more unique laws. This is evident in the way that criminals were punished in
the Americas, while English criminals were often sentenced to long jail times in the prisons or
gallows, American criminals often got physical beatings, whippings, floggings, branding, “the
stocks” which is basically wooden feet cuffs that were rigidly stuck together, not with chains, and
“the ducking stool”.
Colonial Governments pg 96 - Again, because of how far contact between Americans and the
Crown was, governments in colonial America kinda got to do whatever they wanted, so it
became very accustomed to the colonists to have a lot of issues be dealt with a nearly fully
self-governing body, which was oftentimes just in the community and were small assemblies of
community members. The Governors of the colonies oftentimes did not have a lot of power,
since their power came from the crown which was kind of a joke at this point, and also because

