[PAGE 27]

at any moment in time, the power of the governor could be stripped away from them at the snap
of the Crown’s fingers.
CHAPTER THREE ENDS HERE
READING QUIZ#3 INFO STARTS HERE
Decentralized Colonial Administration pg 99 - Colonial government and law enforcement was
extremely decentralized, with no colonial office located in London to represent the colonies. In
addition, there was little to no infrastructure to actually enforce and govern the colonies. This
resulted in self-governing colonies.
Powerful Colonial Legislatures pg 100 - Colonists kinda ran their own governments, and these
governments often overpowered the Parliament and Royal authority. Colonial governments
could pass laws, levy taxes, make appropriations and appointments, and also could bypass the
governor.
Albany Plan - pg 100 Ben Franklin sees the merit in having all the colonies united against
common enemies, and having a central government for the colonies. Parliament would have
power to control Indigenous relations for the colonies and would have a leader appointed by the
king and an elected parliament. However, this idea never went through, and Ben Franklin calls
everyone a dumbass because these are the same people that want to reject Franklin’s idea of
unionizing.
An Uneasy Balance of Power - pg 101 - The English, French, and Iroquois Confederacy are all
vying for power in the Colonies, and they have an uneasy peace going on. However this peace
is broken in the 1750s, starting the French and Indian war.
New Sources of Conflict pg 101 - Religion and Trade create new conflicts between the French
and English. For example, the Fur trade brings many French colonists to the New world, and
French Jesuits convert many to Christianity.
France’s North American Empire pg 101 - France sets up forts and stuff in the New World, near
the Mississippi and Canada areas. New Orleans also serves as a pretty profitable trading and
plantation area for the French.
The Iroquois Confederacy pg 102 - The Iroquois Confederacy is a group of 5 Indigenous nations
(Mohawk, Seneca Cayuga, Onondaga, Oneida) that are all in an alliance with each other. They
are like the top clan in all of the Northwestern Area and win all the clan wars like full 30 stars.
Most importantly, they beat their rival the Hurons. Once they had control over their territory, the
Iroquois traded with French, Dutch, and English Colonists. They maintained their independence
by remaining neutral and playing the French and English against each other.



[PAGE 28]

European Seeds of Conflict pg 102 - After the Glorious Revolution in England, the English
Throne passed to one of Louis XIV’s enemies (William III), who really does not like the French.
He starts a bunch of fights against France that continues for 80 years or so.
Fort Necessity pg 103 - New rookie to the English/French Tensions is George Washington (who
is this guy). In the summer of 1754, Washington built Fort Necessity in the Ohio Valley to
challenge the French and their Fort Duquesne. Washington attacks the French and fails, he gets
counterattacked and then like a third of Washington’s soldiers die and the guy folds
(surrenders).
Braddock Defeated pg 103 - General Edward Braddock is the Appointed leader of the British
Army and basically gets dunked on when he tries to take the Ohio River in 1755. The guy dies.
RIP. Apparently he was a big deal?
William Pitt Takes Charge pg 103 In 1757, William Pitt (English Secretary of State) takes things
into his own hands and begins to pull himself up by the bootstraps and WIN THIS WAR (he
enlisted colonists). William Pitt brings England back ballin in the 4th by putting ALL THE
COLONIES under British control. He does a bunch of planning and appointing and ordering and
all that stuff, and he also enlists colonists under the “impressment” system. Colonists aren’t too
happy about this guy since he basically lets Soldiers use all the colonist’s resources like food
and shelter and that stuff without compensation. However in 1758, Pitt realizes that recruiting
people that hate you is kind of a bad idea so he goes easier on the whole “no compensation”
thing and also gives the colonists more control over the whole fighting stuff.
Siege of Quebec Pg 105 - Jeffrey Amherst and James Wolfe jump the French, who are
weakened due to poor harvests. In July 1758, they take Louisbourg, and then they go on to
sweep the French at Duquesne and Quebec in 1759. These wins for the British result in the
Peace of Paris and a lot of dead native people, as there are bounties for those who show proof
of killing a Native person.
Peace of Paris pg 106 - Signed in 1763, the Peace of Paris resulted in French ceding a ton of
territory to England in the Indies, India (the one in Asia with the taj mahal), and all American
Territory east of Mississippi now called New Orleans. They gave New Orleans and all the land to
the West to the Spanish.
Consequences of the Seven Years War pg107 Although the British and Colonial soldiers fought
side by side in this war, the grievances of the Colonial soldiers were mainly about the fact that



[PAGE 29]

the British were treated so differently in comparison to their American counterparts. Colonial
soldiers resented the British soldiers for their general outlook on the war. Americans believed
they were fighting for the better of the colonies and the people of the colonies, while the British
were deemed arrogant and treated the war as a joke. This became a massive reason why
American sentiment for the British dropped so low during the years before the war. Also
important to mention that the British felt like the colonists got carried and then got a massive
ego afterwards (like valorant?????)
Commercial VS Territorial Imperialists pg 107 The Way England viewed the colonies was
debated on heavily, and there were two main groups:
Commercial Imperialists wanted to focus on Mercantilism, trade and exports in the form of
goods
Territorial Imperialists argued that land itself was a source of income through taxation (huh) and
increased population doing work.
These two groups debated heavily after the French and Indian War, as Commercial Imperialists
wanted to negotiate for “Sugar Islands” in the Indies, while Territorial Imperialists argued for
more French Territories in the Americas.
I
Britain’s Staggering War Debt pg 108 Due to the costs of sending troops to America, and
fighting, and defending the Americas, Britain was in HOLY SHIT levels of Debt. This was made
worse by the colonies lack of/very light amount of financial contribution to war efforts. Parliament
and the King decided that taxation was the only way they could get the colonies to pay up. (I
feel bad for England imagine essentially fighting a war for someone and not getting paid back
for it)
George III’s shortcomings pg 109 (he’s INSANE CRACKED IN THE BRAIN FR)
My boy George is inbred or something, because he’s mentally unstable. He has bouts of
insanity, and he also has a severe inferiority complex which is not a good thing for the leader of
a world power to have. He’s also really immature
Proclamation of 1763 pg 109 Proclamation of 1763 was an order by the crown after the French
and Indian war for the American colonists to stop expanding westward into any Indigenous
controlled territory. This was ordered by the crown because the aftermath of the French and
Indian War left the American colonies/British with a large chunk of land that was once controlled
by the French just West of the East Coast. This land after American control would often be
settled by the Americans, which was very unpopular with the Indigenous peoples who had lived
there for hundreds of generations before the Americans (no way). The Indigenous peoples told
them to stop, and as such, the crown ordered the Proclamation of 1763, which was super
unpopular with the Americans. THE THING TO NOTE about this order is that it caused tensions



[PAGE 30]

between the Americans and the British, the Americans, who were basically fully autonomous at
this point were just pissed at the fact the British government and parliament would constantly
butt (Butt ahahahah 🤓) into American affairs, imposing rules on them when the Americans
were fully independent from the British many times. (imagine like a fully grown college student
having a curfew imposed by their parents when they live a like 5 hour flight away from their
parents) (bro sounds like my mom 💀 yeah you gotta get that sorted 😬 m an life sucks 😔) (it
really do be like that)
White Encroachment pg 110 The proclamation failed to keep the colonists in check, and further
attempts to restrict their movements only ended in failure. Colonists kept pushing further and
further into the Ohio Valley. It’s also really hard to believe, but indigenous people were not very
happy about this.
Sugar, Currency, Stamp Acts pg 110 These are all laws passed to try and gain economic and
political control of the Colonies. All together, these laws increased taxes, gave more political
control to the crown (i.e actually dealing with smuggling), and stopped the use of Paper
currencies. The Stamp act placed a tax on every printed good in the colonies. These acts were
not received well, as they were seen as a precedent for Royal Authorities taking over the
colonies. Also they didn’t want to pay taxes, which is kind of fair.
Regulator Movement pg 110 A small scale civil war broke out as a result of the Regulator
Movement in North Carolina. The Regulators were farmers of the Carolina upcountry who
organized in opposition to the high taxes that local sheriffs collected. The western countries
were badly underrepresented in the colonial assembly, and the Regulators failed to win their
redress there. Finally, they armed themselves and began resisting by force. To suppress the
revolt, Governor WIlliam Tryon formed a group of militiamen, mostly from the eastern counties,
who beat a group of 2,000 Regulators in the Battle of Alamance. Nine on each side were killed,
and many wounded. Afterwards, six Regulators were hanged for treason. Conflicts like these
were common. The British policies about taxes and stuff eventually counterbalanced these inner
conflicts.
Paxton Boys 110 Paxton boys were a group of people from western PENNSYLVANIA that
harassed Philadelphia with demands for relief from colonial taxes and for money to defend
themselves. They were declared outlaws earlier by the Pennsylvania government after an
unauthorized attack on a neighboring indigenous tribe. Instead of surrendering, they armed
themselves and prepared to attack. Stopped by Benjamin Franklin and the government by
meeting demands.
Postwar Depression pg 110 After the French and Indian War, economy go die. The economy
was booming due to Britain’s investment in the colonies, which stopped after they won the war.
In addition, people feared new taxes would ruin the Colonial Economy permanently, because
being taxed is very bad apparently.



[PAGE 31]

Political Consequences of the Grenville Program pg 111 The Grenville Program was a program
set up by the British government. This program was basically a set of taxes that would be
imposed specifically on the American colonies, which included The Sugar and Stamp taxes,
both of which were massive on the American colonies. Now take a wild guess, what do you
think American colonists hated the most? That’s right: being treated like a child and also,
TAXES! Why did these taxes happen? You might ask: the French and Indian war was a costly
war that was fought by both the British and the American colonists on the same side. Despite
the camaraderie on the battlefield, it was very apparent that the British economy was in utter
shambles after the victory over the French, so to fix this, the British colonies levied taxes over
the American colonies, thinking that because the war was fought there, it would make sense
and not completely infuriate the Americans that they were being taxed. The Americans were in
fact, completely infuriated by the taxes.
Effects of the Stamp Act 112 The Colonists in America were PISSED over the Stamp Act, as
they saw it as a tax that they had no control over. In addition, since paper was a very common
item used in the colonies, this mean this tax would apply to a lot of things like Legal Documents,
Licenses, and printed documents. Colonists were afraid that the Stamp Act would set a
precedent for more goods to be taxed.
Virginia Resolves pg 113 Patrick Henry introduced a set of resolutions declaring that Americans
possessed the same rights as the English, especially the right to be taxed only by their own
representatives. Virginians should pay no taxes except those voted by the Virginia assembly,
and that anyone advocating the right of Parliament to tax Virginians should be deemed an
enemy of the colony. The House of Burgesses defeated the most extreme of these resolutions.
However, all of them were printed and circulated as the “Virginia Resolves”, implying that the
people were more militant than they were.
Sons of Liberty pg 113 A Group of Colonists who protested against Britain’s taxes in violent
ways, such as threatening tax collectors and attacking those who supported the British. In
addition, the Sons of Liberty enforced Boycotts through force.
Parliament Retreats pg 113 After much resistance to the Stamp act, a new prime minister, the
Marquis of Rockingham attempted to appease both the Americans and British by repealing the
very unpopular Stamp act, but also because the British thought that the Americans wouldn’t
follow any rules now that the Stamp act was repealed, Marquis was forced to implement the
Declaratory Act, which gave Parliament absolute authority over the colonies. This was received
pretty well at the start in the American colonies, with people celebrating the repeal of the Stamp
Act and more or less ignoring the fact that the Parliament now had 100% control over the
American colonies.
Mutiny Act pg 114 - THe Mutiny/Quartering Act of 1765 required colonists to provide quarters
(shelter) and Supplies to British Troops in America without compensation. People had already
been doing this, but they got mad due to the fact that it was mandatory now (i feel that)



[PAGE 32]

Internal and External Taxes pg 114 British people were STILL unhappy with the way that
Rockingham (the guy that repealed the stamp act) handled the situation, saying that the
government had basically only appealed to the interest of some random hillbillies and
merchants across the Atlantic, and the King was forced to put Rockingham out of the position of
Prime Minister, bringing a guy named Charles Townshend into power. He immediately did 2 big
things to the American colonies: 1. He disbanded the New York assembly, and 2. He brought
back…you guessed it; TAXES! How did William defend himself to the colonists? He argued that
Benjamin Franklin had once brought up the idea of “Internal and external” taxes. This implied
taxes that were placed on the colonies from the exterior from the Parliament and crown, and
taxes that were placed on the colonies from the interior from the colonies themselves. Uh. The
colonies didn’t buy it.
Colonial Boycotts pg 115 Boston merchants, accustomed to loose enforcement of the navigation
Acts and also angry that the new commission was trying to stop the very lucrative smuggling
trade, were indignant and took the lead in organizing another boycott. In 1768, the merchants of
Philadelphia and New York joined them, and later some southern merchants and planters also
agreed to participate. Colonists boycotted British goods subject to the Townshend Duties, and
throughout the colonies, American domestic products became fashionable, while English
luxuries fell from favor. Later in 1767(wtf we were just in 1768???) Charles Townshend suddenly
died, and the duties of dealing with colonial resistance fell to the new PM, Lord North(What a
name). Hoping to break the nonimportation agreement and divide the colonists, Lord North
secured the repeal of all the Townshend Duties except the tax on tea…(I wonder what this is
leading to)
Competition and Scarce Employment pg 115 They have this here, but they don’t really say shit
about it. The whole part of the textbook that this is talking about talks about how the British were
heavily disliked and discriminated against in Boston.
I guess there’s a part about how British Soldiers aren’t paid a lot, so they try to find jobs
to do while off duty, which competes with colonists. (This is probably it but its TWO
WHOLE SENTENCES)
Sam Adams pg 116 The leading figure in fomenting public outrage over the Boston Massacre
was none other than Samual Adams, the most effective radical in the colonies. Adams was born
in 1722 and was somewhat older than other leaders of colonial protest. As a member of an
earlier generation with strong ties to New England’s Puritan past, he was particularly inclined to
view public events in stern moral terms. A failure in business, he became a persistent voice
expressing outrage at British oppression. He argued that England had become a mass of sin
and corruption, and that only in America did public virtue survive(um…I got bad news buddy…)
IN 1772, he proposed the creation of a “committee of correspondence” in Boston to publicize
the grievances against England throughout the colony. Adams became its first head. Other
colonies followed this, and a loose network of political organizations grew up that kept the spirit
of dissent alive through the 1770s.



[PAGE 33]

England’s Balanced Constitution pg 117 England had a very balanced constitution (I have such
a way with words) (Teach me your ways!) . The system worked like this: there were 3 parts of
society, the Monarchy, the Aristocracy, and the Common People. With this system, everybody
would be easily and equally represented (In my opinion, there are many flaws, such as the fact
that the Monarchy, which would make up literally 0.00001% if not less of the population would
literally have the same power in government as 92ish% of the population, but I digress). Why
did this system come to fruition? Well, the English were very infatuated by the idea that people
were naturally evil and corrupt and selfish. To combat this, it was thought that a government
would be needed to protect each other from one’s evil, corrupt, and selfish acts. However, there
would also need to be a way to keep the government themselves from being evil, corrupt, and
selfish on top of that, so that’s how the system was made. How did this affect the Americas?
Well the Americans saw this system and were thinking to themselves: we do plenty for the
British! We make a large portion of money for them, why don’t we get a seat in this special
system? This is unfair! So yes, this is just tying into more American grievances for the British.
Virtual vs Actual Representation pg 117 So basically, the idea of Virtual Representation in
England was the idea that all members of the Parliament in England were acting on behalf of
the entire British empire. This idea led to the entirety of the English parliament basically being
nothing but full white English aristocrats, no common folk, no Indian peoples, no Irish peoples,
no American colonists, nobody of African descent, no Australians, noone from North Africa or
Islamic world. This also enraged the American colonists, since they believed the Parliament was
in need of Actual representation from American colonists to talk for American interests, since it
was proven that oftentimes Parliament did not know what the American people wanted.
Revolutionary Discourse pg 118 - Colonies also kept revolutionary sentiment alive through
writing and talking. Dissenting leaflets, pamphlets, and books were spread throughout the
colonies. In towns and cities, men gathered everywhere, especially in taverns(drunk ass
bitches) to discuss politics and express their growing distaste for English policies. The rise of
revolutionary ideology was not a result of the ideas of intellectuals, but also a product of a social
process in which ordinary people heard, discussed, and absorbed new ideas. The popular
anger lying just beneath the surface was also visible in occasional acts of rebellion. In 1772,
angry residents of Rhode Island boarded the Britiwsh(Leaving the typo in) schooner Gaspée ,
set it ablaze, and sank it in Narragansett Bay. The British response to this further angered
American opinion. Instead of putting the accused attackers on trail in colonial courts, the British
sent a special commission to America with power to send the defendants back to England for
trial. What finally revived the revolutionary fervor of the 1760s was a new act of parliament–one
that the English government had expected to be relatively uncontroversial. It involved the
business of selling tea…(Oh boy)
The Tea Act pg 118 - The Tea act made the East India Company franchise its tea out, and
made it a lot cheaper but taxed tea due to the East India Company not having to pay customs.
People saw this as the government creating a monopoly on tea with a mandatory tax tacked on
to it. This outrage would lead to massive boycotts, and overall discontent in the colonies. This
would lead to………



[PAGE 34]

Boston Tea Party pg 119 - THE BOSTON TEA PARTY!!!!!! On December 16 1773, People
dressed up as Indigenous Mohawks (so they had a scapegoat if shit went wrong), raided tea
ships and threw the Tea into the Harbor. This would lead to a ripple effect throughout the
colonies with people doing very similar things all over the colonies.
This would lead to King George the III creating the Coercive Acts to reign in the Colonists’ wild
behavior
Coercive Acts pg 119 - Man these things are leading into each other! The Coercive (or
Intolerable if you’re AMERICAN 🦅) Acts, along with the Quebec Act (which gave a government
to Canada and recognized the rights of Roman Catholics, who were really disliked still for some
reason, something something Church of Rome) were passed. God the grammar here have fun
reading that.The coercive Acts took away the self-governance and the rights that came with that
of Massachusetts and Massachusetts specifically for some reason. (I would tell you more IF
THE TEXTBOOK TOLD ME) From my beautiful research, the coercive acts basically imposed
strict control of Boston harbors because THAT is where the Boston Tea Party happened. It also
restricted democratic town meetings, making British officials immune to prosecution, and also
forced colonists to house British soldiers (But Quartering act???). As you can see, it made the
Americans pretty mad. Youch!
Consequences pg 119 - People were very not happy with the Coercive Acts, and extended the
Boycotts to all British goods like tea and textiles, and also the First Continental Congress was
held in order to air grievances to England
First Continental Congress pg 122 - In 1772, a certain Sam Adams called for delegates from all
the colonies to hold the first Continental Congress. Everybody was able to make it, besides
Georgia, but would be present in later congresses. The first congress was held in Carpenter’s
Hall in Philadelphia, where they rejected a plan to be under British authority as a colonial union.
They then endorsed a “statement of grievances” which was basically a paper complaining about
the differences between the moderates and extremists of the delegates (so basically they
recognized their differences in the subject of English rule). Third, they also planned for the
future, approving a plan to start militarizing in preparation for the possible attack of British troops
in Boston. Lastly, they agreed to stop ANY AND ALL trade between the American colonies and
Great Britain. They also agreed to meet up next Spring. So yeah. The first congress. Wahoo!
The Conciliatory Propositions pg 124 - During the winter, the Parliament in London debated
proposals for appeasing the colonists. Lord Chatham(William Pitt), the former prime minister,
urged the withdrawal of troops from America. Edmund Burke called for the repeal of the
Coercive Acts, but their efforts were in vain. Lord North won approval early in 1775 for a series
of measures known as the Conciliatory Propositions. Parliament now proposed that the
colonies, instead of being directly taxed by Parliament, would tax themselves at Parliament’s
demand. With this offer, Lord North hoped to divide the American moderates, who he thought



[PAGE 35]

represented the views of the majority. But it was too little and too late, for it did not reach
America until after the first shots of war had been fired.
General Thomas Gage pg 125 - In Boston, General Thomas Gage, commanding the British
garrison, knew of the military preparations in the countryside. He considered his army too small
to do anything until reinforcements arrived. He resisted the advice of less cautious officers, who
thought that the Americans wouldn’t dare to actually fight, and that they would back down
quickly before any show of British force. Gage was still hesitant when he received orders from
England to arrest Sam Adams and John Hancock, known to be in Lexington. But when Gage
heard that the minutemen had stored a large supply of gunpowder in Concord, he finally
decided to act. On the night of April 18th, 1775, he sent a group of about 1,000 soldiers out from
Boston on the road to Lexington. He intended to surprise the colonials and seize the supplies.
(Spoiler, it failed; “THE BRITISH ARE COMING”)
The Revolution Begins pg 126 - It was not immediately clear to either side that the skirmishes at
Lexington and Concord were the first battles of a war. Many saw them as another example of
tensions that had been afflicting Anglo-American relations for years. But whether they
recognized it at the time or not, the British and the Americans had taken a decisive step. The
War for Independence had begun.(Insert patriotic music)
Common Sense pg 130 - It’s italicized in the textbook, I don’t know why I’m wheezing. Oh nvm
its the title of a pamphlet thats what you do with the titles of stuff ian. . Common Sense was
written by Thomas Paine, who had emigrated from England to America fifteen months before.
He spent much of his life living in poverty, and he was ostracized because he openly ridiculed
Christianity. His pamphlets influenced the developing ideals of the United States. Much like Sam
Adams, he failed in almost all aspects of his life, but found tremendous success as a
Revolutionary. His Common Sense helped change the American outlook towards the war. Paine
wanted to turn the anger of Americans away from the specific parliamentary measures they
were resisting and redirected it toward what he considered to be the root of the problem: the
English constitution. He argued that it wasn’t enough for Americans to continue blaming their
problems on particular ministers or even the Parliament. It was the king, and the system that
allowed him to rule, that was to blame. Therefore, he said it was common sense(Now I get it) for
Americans to break from a government that could produce a king as corrupt as George III. He
also said that England was no more fit to rule the American continent, that a satellite was fit to
rule the sun.(Did satellites exist back then???) ( A satellite refers to objects that revolve around
planets, this terms been around for a while to refer to rocks n stuff that surround other planets)
The Declaration of Independence pg 130 - In 1776, a Declaration of Independence was written
by a 33 year old Thomas Jefferson with help from Ben Frank and John Adams. The declaration
honestly didn’t say anything new or heavily change the way that American life was, but it most
importantly formalized the Independence of the American colonies (obviously they still had to
fight the British though). These ideas came from town meetings, artisan and militia
organizations, County officials, juries, and the Sons/Daughters of Liberty, along with colonial
assemblies. Basically any ideas that were created by people who supported American



[PAGE 36]

patriotism would end up or at least be considered for being on the Declaration. A lot of ideas
were also inspired by the works of John Locke, a very popular philosopher at the time, such as
the idea that everybody was allowed the rights to “life”, “liberty”, and “pursuit of happiness”
(property but it doesn’t sound as cool to the average guy ). The declaration also had some
PRETTY hypocritical claims though, such as the idea that “all men are created equal”, which
was NOT reflected in the treatment of slaves, or the fact that slavery even existed at all, not to
mention that “all men” doesn’t entail women, or the fact that Jews were still discriminated
against, or the fact that after the American colonies became independent Quakers and
Anglicans were treated pretty badly, as were British loyalists. So by “All Men” it really is just
saying Patriot Free White Males. Nonetheless, the ideas in the Declaration of Independence
would make their way around the world, inspiring the French revolution as well.
Divided Americans pg 131 - After the Declaration of Independence, the colonies began to call
themselves “states”(wowee) – A reflection of their belief that each province was now, in some
ways, a separate and sovereign entity. Even before the Declaration, colonies began to operate
independently. The Parliament in London had suspended representative government in
America, but it did not end colonial self-government, instead, it increased it. The colonial
assemblies continued to meet, now free from imperial law. After the Declaration of
Independence, former colonies marked their own independence by writing formal constitutions
for themselves. By 1781, most of the new states had produced these constitutions, which
established republican governments. Some of these constitutions stood for many decades
without significant change. However, at the national level, the process of forming a government
was more halting and less successful. For a while, Americans were uncertain if they even
wanted a real national government. The Continental Congress had not been much more than a
coordinating mechanism, and virtually everyone considered the individual colonies / states the
real centers of authority. Thus began a tradition that Americans would continue for more than
two centuries: balance the commitment to state and local autonomy against the need for some
centralized authority.
Articles of Confederation pg 131 - OK! As we read more about the Independence of America
and the founding of its government, we will find ourselves looking at a LOT of important papers
that we will mix up on. Let’s get this straight: The Declaration was the American colonies giving
reasons for the American colonies to be an independent country . The Articles of Confederation
were a set of papers that confirmed the congress as the government for the newly independent
United States, but would also make it so that each state still held a majority of power in their
own matters, so the Congress was actually quite weak and had not much say over the entirety
of the colonies, it just so happened that oftentimes the colonies would agree with whatever the
Congress would say.
Financing the War pg 132 - Now that the Revolution had started, the need for money to finance
a war was high. So what did the American government do? What any good government does
during wartime: print a ton of paper money. Paper continental dollars IMMEDIATELY plummeted
to being worthless, and prices for all goods skyrocketed in the colonies (in terms of continental
dollars, which is why George Washington’s troops starved at Valley Forge in 1777, because they



[PAGE 37]

basically only had continental dollars). The American merchants were actually so fed up with the
continental dollar actually, that the American merchants and farmers began selling more to the
British, who had coins that were actually worth so much. Congress tried OVER and OVER again
to try and implement a good system to finance their war efforts, but in the end they failed and
had to resort to borrowing from other nations (France).
General George Washington pg 132 - General George Washington was a veteran General from
the French and Indian war, sporting a grand total of…no notable victories in the war :| (HE
TOOK A MASSIVE L TOO AT FORT DUQUESNE) (George “L” Washington) , and on top of that
in that war he was more known for his defeat at the battle of Fort Necessity. Nevertheless, he
was one of the more successful colonial generals in the war and the fact he managed to
organize and effectively command his group of ragtag colonial troops was enough to convince
the American congress that he was fit to be the main general for the Colonial, no Continental
Army. Some more details because people care about that: George Washington was a 43 (at the
time of the start of the war) year old Virginian Planter-Aristocrat(so basically he was a planter,
and he got rich off it, surprise surprise). What mattered the most however, was the fact that
George Washington was admired by the Patriots and was a popular general for the war, and a
strong and early advocate for American Independence.
Original George Washington Challenger Commercial
Foreign Assistance pg 132 - The Americans received a lot of, guns(real), and resources(real),
from foreign influences like the French (Marquis de Lafayette) and the Prussians(Baron von
Steuben), giving Washington a real army with like guns and stuff. To fight. In a war. They ended
up with a respectable army of 10,000 men that ended up doing pretty good in the war all things
consider
American Advantages pg 133 - Americans were a lot more motivated to fight the war compared
to the British, meaning they had a morale advantage. In addition, the Americans received a lot
of resources from foreign powers like France. The Biggest Advantage of them All™ (Dodge
Challenger) was the fact that the British were stupid as hell and didn’t jump the colonists at the
early game and instead spent time trying to farm as Lee Sin. (They didn’t immediately resort to
full force against the colonists, giving them time to organize, get resources, and figure out the
whole war thing)
Bunker Hill pg 134 - After the British withdrawal from Concord and Lexington in April of 1775,
American forces besieged the army of General Thomas Gage in Boston. The Patriots suffered
severe casualties in the Battle of Bunker Hill on June 17, 1775, and were ultimately driven from
their position there. But they inflicted much greater losses on the enemy than the enemy
inflicted on them. In fact, the British suffered their heaviest casualties of the entire war at Bunker
Hill. After the battle, the Patriots continued to tighten the siege. By the first months of 1776, the
British had concluded that Boston was not the best place to wage war. Not only was it the center
of the most Anti-British region of the colonies, it was also tactically indefensible. By late winter,
Patriot forces had surrounded the city and occupied strategic positions on the heights. On
March 17th, 1776, the British departed Boston.



[PAGE 38]

Invasion of Canada pg 135 - Americans in the Americas realized there were British people in
Canada, so they invaded Canada. They also hoped to gain the support of Canadians for their
war efforts. Benedict Arnold and Richard Montgomery tried to take Quebec, but they both failed
and Montgomery’s dead now. Congress tried the diplomacy approach with Ben Franklin, but that
didn’t work out either, and that’s why Canada is its own nation.
Salutary Neglect - not in book - It’s not in the book, but Ms. Bellas said this was a key APUSH
term. Salutary Neglect refers to the (old) British policy of being kind of lax with the enforcement
of parliamentary laws in the colonies, meaning there was a lot of independence in the colonies.
Of course this didn’t last forever, but it WAS how the colonies were run, and kind of set the
standard for the colonists there. (which explains why they got so mad over like, 3 taxes)
Week #4 ( 9 2-185 (something like that) )
British Take New York pg 136 - The British Take New York, taking Long Island and Manhattan,
forcing the Americans across the Delaware River to Pennsylvania. The British then took their
Christmas break n stuff.
Britain’s Strategy pg 136 - The British aimed to split the Colonies in two, with Howe(general guy)
moving North from NYC up the Hudson to Albany, while another would come south from
Canada to meet him there. Howe would end up ditching this plan and just decided to jump
Philadelphia, which he did with ease
Patriot Victory at Saratoga pg 137 Major turning point in the Revolutionary war, America won a
battle in Saratoga led by George Washington. Uh I’m typing this up on Thursday so like, not a
lot of time 😬
British Blunders pg 137 - The British messed up big time due to the fact that they are dumb as
hell. For example WIlliam Howe ditched his Northern Campaign and refused to finish off the
Colonists at Pennsylvania and allowed the Americans to set up and recover at VALLEY



[PAGE 39]

FORGE . Some believe that Howe was paid off to throw the semis due to to financial gain, others
believe that he was alcoholic, stuff like that.
Also the Howe really didn’t take the war too seriously so there was that.
Divisions in the Iroquois Confederacy pg 138 - During the American revolution, The Iroquois
confederacy did try its best to remain neutral and not pick a side despite the overwhelming
majority of the Iroquois Confederacy wanting to support the British war effort. This did not last,
as members of the Iroquois began to break the rules and to follow the British into battle. One
important thing to note here is that Joseph Brant and Mary Brant, a Mohawk sibling duo, did a
lot to convince other Iroquois members (I am referring to groups, not individual people) to join
the effort, which included the Seneca and Cayuga groups.
READING QUIZ#3 INFO ENDS HERE
READING QUIZ#4 INFO STARTS HERE
Militia Diplomats pg 139 - The “Militia Diplomats” here do not refer to actual Militiamen of the
American military, but rather the diplomats sent by the American government to convince other
nations, particularly France and Holland to fund and also help the American war effort. The 2
famous people to remember here are John Adams and Ben Franklin
Pivotal French Aid pg 140 - Basically, France big help America. The important part of note is the
contribution that Benjamin Franklin made to convince the French. John Adams, who was the
first diplomat sent to France was having a fair bit of trouble convincing the King in France to
help the American war effort, so Benjamin Franklin was called in, and his popularity not only
with the King but also basically everybody in France allowed him to quickly get the support that
the US needed to aid them during the war, including money, basic supplies and also navy
support.
Revolutionary Consequences of the Southern Campaign page 140 - The British believed that
making headway in the South would be the more optimal plan as it was heard that support for
the British was especially high there and Loyalists would greet the British with open arms. They
were in fact, very wrong, and Loyalist support for the British was not that high in the South, and
as the British attempted to even move to the South they faced heavy opposition in the form of
many small battles. So where does the “Revolutionary Consequences” part come from?
Civilians were ALSO involved in this conflict, and many Civilians found themselves with British
soldiers in their backyards, giving them reason to take up arms and basically form a militia unit
themselves. Whether they liked it or not, war in their backyards, no matter the outcome, would
result in their land being wrecked, so there was a reason to protect it.



[PAGE 40]

Nathanael Greene pg 141 - Natanael GREENE was a Quaker general from Rhode Island, and
was considered to be the 2nd most competent general in the Revolution (aside from
Washington). Greene would fight the British in the Carolinas and inflict crippling defeats on the
British, effectively stopping Cornwallis from being a threat in the Carolinas due to the fact he had
lost like all his men. Bro got dunked on pretty hard ngl fr fr on ja!
Yorktown ( B attle of Yorktown ) pg 142 - So as Ryan just told you, General Cornwallis was on the
run. His army was a tired, small, and honestly dead group of men. Word got out somehow that
Cornwallis’s forces were looking to go move North into Virginia to retreat and head home, but
George Washington and his new friend from France Jean Baptiste de Rochambeau set up a
trap that would have Washington and Rochambeau join General Lafayette who was already
stationed in Virginia cut off Cornwallis’s escape via land, while Admiral Francois Joseph de
Grasse cut off the sea from Cornwallis’s army. After the trap had been laid out and successfully
executed, Cornwallis was forced to surrender him and his 7,000 or so men to the Americans.
Treaty of Paris pg 143 - The MOST IMPORTANT Treaty of Paris relative to this unit, this treaty
basically had Britain recognize the US as an independent nation. This is the easy part, the
harder part to understand is why it took so long for the French and Americans and British to
agree on this. Apparently the SPANISH also have something to do with this, lemme explain it:
Spain for a while had wanted Gibraltar (putting up some cover for my brothers) back from the
British, keep in mind, the Spanish at the time were BIGTIME French allies. What happened was
actually pretty simple after this, the Spanish and French simply just agreed to end hostilities
towards the British (see how long a French and British peace treaty lasts LOL). So yeah, that’s
why it took so long for the Treaty to be signed, because Spain was just being a little bitch.
The loyalists’ Plight pg 143 - Cool, the Americans had won their independence, NOW WHAT?
Well for one, most Patriots are pretty happy, everything they had been working towards the past
decade finally came to fruition and the American confederation was a newly founded nation. But
you seem to forget some of the bad things that also ensued, for example, loyalists to the British
crown were heavily harassed, from just being left out of just about everything to being physically
assaulted to being tarred and feathered, thousands and basically every Loyalist fled the newly
founded confederation for any non-American confederation controlled territory, British Canada
amongst the most popular destination.
Weakening of the Anglican Church pg 144 - Anglican church members were actually a large
portion of the Loyalist population, and because of this and also other complicated reasons the
Anglican church became disestablished and basically went to ruin. Many churches didn’t have
their clergymen anymore, and because so many Loyalists left for Canada, most churches also
just didn’t have members. So yeah, in terms of religions, Anglicans were definitely the
Revolution’s big losers.
African American Desire for Freedom pg 145 - We have not discussed African Americans and
their role in the revolution, and it’s important to note here that early on, the British offered
freedom for slaves who joined the British cause. Not only because it would prove to be an easy



[PAGE 41]

source of troops, but also because by making slaves leave their masters, the American
economy would go to shit and general chaos would ensue, which is a perfect recipe for taking
the American colonies.
Note: Join British Army = No more slavery included Lord Dunmore’s Proclamation of 1775
Strengthening of the Catholic Church pg 145 - The Roman Catholic church got a lot of power
during the revolution, why is this? Mainly because the French, who supplied and were major
allies for the Americans were primarily Roman Catholics and also because the Vatican had
offered a Catholic system and hierarchy for the Catholic church in the Americas, making the
Catholic church significantly stronger in the American colonies than it had before.
Tension Between Liberty and Slavery pg 146 - The Revolution and it’s ideas of liberty and
freedom REALLY brought into question the role of slavery in American society. Many argued
that it didn’t make sense for a country that would pride itself so much on liberty and freedom to
be keeping hundreds of thousands of innocent people in bondage. What was the result of the
argument? In the end, the American South did not want to lose their main source of free labor in
exchange for some moral dilemma, and also because so many feared a world in which free
African Americans lived alongside free White Americans.
Taking sides pg 146 - Indigenous peoples found it hard to stay neutral in the war, as it was
apparent to them that the British, who in the past had tried to prevent conflict and expansion into
their territory were a clear side to root and fight for. The idea of the British granting the
Indigenous peoples not only their freedom but also land back was too good to pass up (I
wouldn’t pass it up either). How did the revolution affect the Indigenous people in the American
colonies? Well, since there was no longer a British government to prevent the American
colonists from barging into Indigenous land and taking it unfairly, it sucked a lot for the
Indigenous people :( They soon found a lot of their land being taken up for no reason other than
for the sake of expansion and economic growth for the American confederation and later US.
Growing Divisions Among the Indians pg 147 - After the revolution ended in American victory,
the Indigenous people found it hard to create confederacies and large allied groups like they
used to in order to fight back against American expansion. Take for example the Shawnee
people, who had attempted to fight back and take back the Kentucky land which they had lost to
American settlers. Their effort drew in 0 allies and were defeated.
Women of the Army pg 147 - Women also took part in the war, as they normally do in most wars
(but history always leaves them out). Many women would take part in joining their husbands to
war, carrying themselves to camp and working as logistics organizers and workers. Some wives
would also dress up as men in order to aid the American soldiers on the battlefield directly, while
some would take up their husbands gear once they fell in battle to fight for the American patriots
themselves. Martha Washington for example, was a common occurrence wherever George
Washington went, and was even present at Valley Forge.



[PAGE 42]

Calls for Women’s rights pg 148 - After the revolution, a growing number of women began to call
for women’s rights, after all, the new American flag did offer liberty and freedom, but only to
men. In fact, things got worse for women. Unmarried women were still allowed some basic
rights like not being owned by their husbands (but they were basically owned by their fathers :/
), they could own property and all that, but married women were basically 100% property to their
husbands, they had no right to their children, property, or bodies for that matter. When Abigail
Adams famously wrote to her husband to “remember the ladies”, she wasn’t referring to the idea
of giving women more rights, but rather giving them more rights in marriages, since being a
married woman was that tough.
A Strengthened Patriarchal Structure pg 149 - Uh basically everything here can be just
paraphrased from the term above ^^^, but in short, America is a very patriarchal society, and
fathers had just about everything, husbands basically owned their wives, yada yada.
New Patterns of Trade pg 149 - Because the English wanted to choke the American economy
when the war started, the English boycotted American trade, and kept it that way until a lot later.
As a result, more American manufactured everyday goods like furniture were starting to be
produced domestically, leading to a change in trade, with many American made products finding
their ways into American homes, rather than the original British goods.
Importance of Civic Virtue pg 150 - As the new government in America slowly came together,
everyone figured out the importance of having the people be the source of power pretty quickly.
The success of a government based on the people relied on the nature of its people, so the idea
of a few rich people running the government was feared (HUH), and the average citizen would
ideally be an independent Land Owner.
Another part of the new American Ideology was the idea that “All men are created equal”, which
in this case meant something like a Meritocracy, where people’s skills and talents mattered
more than their social status coming from their birth or whatever. The idea was that some
people would be richer than others, but they would have to earn their success.
Persistent Inequality pg 150 Of course this was never going to be the case as there was a
sizable amount of people who didn’t own property. Also slightly more importantly, there was a lot
of Slaves and Women who weren’t included in having the rights of a Citizen. Native Americans
were often exploited or eradicated, and Opportunity was always more available to those who
were richer or had better conditions at Birth.
Written Constitutions and Strong Legislatures pg 150 - There was not yet a real written
constitution or form of government, so the Americans go to work doing just that. A constitution
would be needed, but that will not be discussed now because textbook awesome B). However,
Legislatures popped up all over each state, and governors who were still heavily tied and
involved with the English government were not allowed to dismiss legislature, along with this, 2
branches of government were created, Legislature and Executive branches, that way power



[PAGE 43]

would be distributed a lot more evenly amongst the Americans government, and not just in 1 all
powerful branch like the English parliament.
Shift to Strong Executives pg 150 - The new system of taking lots of power from governors
resulted in unhappy governors and unhappy people who were involved in the executive branch,
and in 1780 the Massachusetts Constitution gave the governor a lot more power, giving him a
fixed salary, job security, and power to veto over legislature.
Statute of Religious Liberty pg 151 - Statute of Religious Liberty was a paper written by Thomas
Jefferson which completely separated church from state in Virginia. This was widely due to the
idea that many Americans had that the state should not give so much power to the church, and
even if the church were to still be part of the government, that they would not hold so much
power.
Limited Power of the National Government pg 152 - National government was WEAK! States
had a majority of the power and although congress had access to a lot on paper (issuing and
borrowing money, military, foreign relationships), it still didn’t have the one thing that a
government really needs, MONEY! This was because taxes that congress approved of would
have to also go through State legislatures, and basically all of em would say NAH YOU AIN’T
TAXIN SHIT FOO. Oh also congress couldn’t draft troops, that was up to State legislature.
Postwar Disputes with Britain and Spain pg 152 - The grievances with Britain were not over
however, as actually, many British soldiers were still left in the Americas despite the agreement
to withdraw all British troops. The British also did not give back the slaves they freed to the
American south, which doesn't make sense, considering once a person is free they shouldn’t be
treated like property. John Adams was called up to get a British minister on American soil, but
could not convince the British government to do so, so yeah, basically, America and Britain still
don't like each other, no surprise there.
Not much about Spain other than it says that Britain and Spain could not live up to terms with
the Treaty of Paris.
THe Ordinances of 1784 and 1785 pg 154 - Ordinances of 1784 and 1785, this one is TRICKY.
But all you really need to know for the first ordinance is that Thomas Jefferson divvied up the
Western territory that had not yet become American states into 10 territories that could all
petition for their statehood, as LONG AS, the territory had the same or larger amount of people
in the smallest state in the US at the time. This was done to avoid creating SECOND class
citizens and also to include new settlements in the Appalachian mountains in the political
structure of the nation.
Now for the NEXT ordinance in 1785, this one would create a system for surveying and selling
land. Territory North of the Ohio River would be surveyed and be marked into neat little towns
with 36 identical sections, 4 of which would belong to the American government, and 1 section
being used for a public school no matter what. Apart from that, sections could be sold off to
individuals for anything over a dollar, which is about 32$ today.



[PAGE 44]

The Grid pg 154 - Sounds cool, but the Grid refers to the system of how land was divided up for
human use. Compared to other NERDS who divided up land based on things like RESOURCES
or NATURAL BOUNDARIES, The Grid system split up land into… a grid. So like, if you got bad
land well then screw you better luck next time. This system became the standard, and became
the model form many Towns and Cities (I LOVE GRIDS MY FAVORITE STREETS 1st 2nd AND
3rd STREET)
Northwest Ordinance pg 154 - So if you remember, Thomas Jefferson created 10 separate
territories North of the Ohio river, and people were not down with this idea, settlements were too
small to hold 10 separate territories, yada yada. So instead in 1787, another ordinance was sent
out, combining all 10 territories into one Northwest Territory, which would eventually split into 3
and then 5 territories. Also, now the requirement was 60,000 people for statehood, not some
weird number dependent on the current smallest state.
Battle of Fallen Timbers pg 155 - So while all this Westward expansion is going on, who are the
biggest losers? You guessed it, the Indigenous peoples already living there! In what is now
Miami Ohio (NOT FLORIDA, OHIO, THERE ARE MYAAMIA PEOPLE LIVING THERE, THAT’S
WHERE WE GET THE WORD MIAMI FROM) hosted a certain guy named Little Turtle, who
was an accomplished Miami warrior and in 1790 led 2 successful campaigns against American
troops and managed to protect his land from American settlers for a little bit, all up until the
Americans brought in more reinforcements. Despite this, the Myaamia people still kind of came
out on top (?), since although they lost their land, the treaty signed by the Myaamia people and
the American government came to an agreement that from that day onward, in order for an
Indigenous group of people to lose their land to the Americans, it had to be done with consent
from both parties. (People like Andrew Jackson would later find workarounds to this system via
rampant violence). This treaty would be called the Treaty of Greenville.
Postwar Depression pg 155 - Uh war expensive. America fight war. America no money. America
taxes people to pay off big debt T M . This will not lead to unforeseeable consequences surely.
That’s literally all I need to say :| It's not that hard to understand man.
Political Disputes over Economic Issues pg 156 - A group of American politicians (Robert
Morris, a young Alexander Hamilton, James Madison amongst this group along with others)
brought up the idea of an impost which was basically a 5% tax on all goods, which uh, as
expected, NOBODY agreed to.
Shay’s Rebellion pg 156 - In short, people were being thrown into jail for not paying taxes. This
heavily affected farmers, who were pretty poor. Daniel Shays, who is a farmer, doesn't like this,
and he leads a group of 1200ish dudes into Massachusetts and they fight some American
troops, with 2 farmers dying and 20-odd more injured. The MAIN POINT here is that it brings up
the concerns of the Articles of Government and also the fact that states had way too much
power, since these policies on taxes were heavily levied by the Massachusetts government.
Shay’s rebellion on the surface didn’t do much, but its impact was large and would heavily affect
the US government system for centuries to come.



[PAGE 45]

A Weak Central Government pg 160 - not typing this again in length :/ but basically America
had a weak central government since power was mostly in the hands of the state governments.
This proved to have issues like Shay’s rebellion here and would lead to 2 separate political
parties forming in the newly founded American Confederation.
Supporters of a Strong National Government pg 160 - there was a LOT of pressure for a
stronger central government, as can be seen with the issues that the Society of Cincinnati had
with the fact that congress had not paid back their pensions (congress has no money
remember).
Alexander Hamilton pg 161 - How does a bastard, orphan, son of a whore and a scotsman,
dropped in the middle of a forgotten spot in the Caribbean…yeah you get the reference (no
way)
A political genius and lawyer, Hamilton grew up in the Caribbean and had been unhappy with
the Articles of Confederation, and called for a National Convention to overhaul the whole thing.
He allied with James Madison, who ended up setting up a conference where Hamilton drafted a
proposal to get Congress to call a convention of delegates to do a full rework of the Articles of
the Confederation to be not garbage.
He ends up being pretty important for the rest of the bit of history here so he pops up here and
there.
The Founding Fathers pg 162 - Because there was such a demand for a new constitution and
centralized government, Alexander Hamilton and his supporters called for a meeting in Virginia,
where…only 5 delegates showed up. Alexander Hamilton in this meeting concluded that the
delegates should actively try to have more states show up to the next meeting to help make the
meeting actually not a joke. To do this, he actually somehow got George Washington on his
side, who agreed and basically because of him, 55 delegates from places apart from Rhode
Island showed up to Philadelphia for the next meeting. Here, these 55 dudes would be named
the Founding Fathers, and were all relatively young men, with the oldest being an 82 year old
Benjamin Franklin. The meeting did a couple things, 1, it unanimously chose George
Washington to head the meeting, and 2, it instead changed congress to a system in which not
all states, but only a majority of states would be needed for a choice to be made.
The Virginia Plan pg 162 - The Virginia Plan was a plan made by James Madison in which the
new National Legislature would actually be split into 2 houses, the lower house, which would
have states represented by its population size (basically, the bigger your state the more power
your vote holds), while the upper house members would be voted on by the lower house. Uh.
The textbook literally does not say a WORD about this upper house >:(
The upper house would have equal representation of all the states.
Small States versus Large States pg 163 - There was still a serious argument for having larger
states get more representation and more votes, but there was also an argument for whether or



[PAGE 46]

not slaves were to be counted as part of the population. However, it was out of the question
whether or not slaves would be given the right to vote, that was a definite no go for the
government (since the slaves would obviously vote to free themselves).
The Great Compromise pg 163 - A compromise between the larger and smaller states on
representation in government. The Lower House of legislature would be based on population
with slaves counting as 3/5 of a person . The Upper house would have equal representation
with 2 people each state.
James Madison pg 164 - James Madison, is as the textbook says: the “most creative political
thinker of his generation”. James Madison helped solve 2 important questions in the newly
found American country, the question of sovereignty and the question of limiting power. Uh, the
textbook don’t say much else :|, so I will include some personal notes: James Madison helped
draft the constitution alongside Thomas Jefferson and Ben Franklin, and also helped draft the
Bill of Rights. He was also the leader of the earliest Republican party.
The Question of Sovereignty pg 165 - The question in this context, was how could the State and
National government coexist side by side? There was an obvious demand for power on either
side of the spectrum, but there was no clear line. James Madison and his followers ultimately
decided on the idea that the people should be the ultimate decider for this, and also be the
ultimate decider for the government as a whole, therefore the power of the government was not
given by the government itself, or the military, but rather by the people, hence “We the people”.
Separation of Powers pg 166 - So, the separation of powers is referring to the separation of
Legislature into 2 houses, but WHY? Well, the American government obviously did not want just
1 central power in the form of a tyranny, nor did it want a large Republic, so what would happen
would be a separation of power to multiple governing bodies, which is what the US had
established then and there and still remains today.
READING QUIZ#5 INFO STARTS HERE
T h e Federalist Papers pg 167 - The Federalists were a group of people who supported the new
Constitution, and this included prominent figures like George Washington, Benjamin Franklin,
and Alexander Hamilton. They really liked ideas of centralizing the government, and a group of
Federalists consisting of Alexander Hamilton, James Madison, and John Jay wrote a number of
essays to be published across the country that would explain the new constitution to people,
these were the Federalists Papers.
The Anti Federalists pg 167 - The name for people who didn’t like the Federalists (wow who
could have guessed this information not me!). The name was coined BY the Federalists in order
to make their opponents sound worse, which is kind of funny. Antifederalists argued that the



[PAGE 47]

Constitution would betray the principles of the Revolution due to the creation of a central
governmental power. In addition, they argued for a Bill of Rights, claiming that people are
inherently corrupt and that getting rights down on paper would make sure that the liberties of the
people remain.
Debating the Constitution pg 168 - People were arguing over the purpose and power of the
Constitution. Federalists want to use the Constitution to create a central government in order to
prevent anarchy and chaos. There’s also a line about how the Federalists feared the power of
the masses (ISN'T THAT THE WHOLE POINT OF THE REVOLUTION AND STUFF
THOUGH??) Antifederalists wanted power to be more in the States and in the People rather
than a centralized government, as they feared concentrated power.
READING QUIZ#4 INFO ENDS HERE
The Bill of Rights pg 168 - Created during the first Congress, the Bill of Rights (or the first 10
Amendments) declared the rights of the people, preventing congress from infringing on certain
basic rights. Freedom of religion, speech, press, immunity from arbitrary arrest, trial by jury, and
others. The 10th Amendment reserved states all powers except those explicitly stated by the
Federal Government.
The Cabinet pg 168 - THE ROOM WHERE IT HAPPENS! (the only reason I’m doing these
parts is for the Hamilton references). The First Congress created a cabinet for the executive
department, consisting of the State, Treasury, and War departments. Hamilton is the secretary
of Treasury, Henry Knox is the Secretary of War, and Edumund Randolph is the attorney
general. Jefferson ends up as the secretary of state.
As the song goes, not everyone was happy about how this government was run, and many
were bitter about the lack of transparency and representation and stuff.
Competing Visions pg 169 - Following up on the thing above, many people with different ideas
of how the government should be run fight and debate with each other during this time. Some
believe that a Central Government is necessary for the economy and world affairs, while others
believe that American society shouldn’t be too commercial or urban, and should remain rural
and modest, with States holding more power. The people who believed in Central Government
ended up being the Federalists being lead by Hamilton, and those believing in the States
having power became the Republicans , like Thomas Jefferson
Assuming the Debt pg 169 - Hamilton proposed that the federal government should assume all
existing public debt, and pay through bonds with interest that could be paid back at a defined
date. He also suggested that the federal government should assume all debt of the States



[PAGE 48]

accrued during the Revolution. By paying through bonds, this encouraged states to have a
stake in the government succeeding, because people want to cash out on their bonds.
This plan would create a permanent “National Debt”, that would be slowly paid off and also grow
again and the cycle would repeat, putting stakes in seeing the government not completely fail.
Hamilton also wanted to create a National bank to help provide loans and also collect taxes and
stuff, since there were few banks in the country.
Hamiltion’s Report on Manufacturing pg 170 - Following up on the above thing, to fix the whole
debt problem. Hamilton proposed two taxes: ONe paid by distillers of alcohol, impacting those in
the Backcountry heavily. The other was a Tariff on imports, preventing competition from foreign
companies.
The Report itself would also lay out a plan to stimulate the growth of Industry in the US, and
also argued the advantages of his plan.
Basically a vision of how to stabilize the government, and how the nation could become wealthy
fast.
Debating Hamilton’s Program - pg 170 Few people disagreed with Hamilton’s plan for finance
and funding the national debt, but many weren’t too happy with the idea of absorbing all debt in
the nation at face value. Old War bonds had been considered worthless for a while, so buying
all these bonds back meant that the rich people who bought them off veterans and stuff would
get loaded ( TIMOTHY DEXTER W )
Location of the Capital - pg 170 - So this ties back to the Hamilton Program, which if you
remember would basically make everybody responsible for paying debt that didn’t quite affect
them (remember, people are loyal to states, not country). Because of this, Virginians in
particular were very unhappy, as they made a large portion of the population. This led to a
dinner conversation between Hamilton and Jefferson to move the capital to a new district named
Maryland in Virginia, which is how it is now.
Bank of the United States pg 170 - Hamilton really liked the idea of a national bank, and argued
that a National bank would allow for a better tax collection system, and it would make it easier
for loans to be given out to people who needed them to start businesses and so on. In 1791, the
Bank went into operation, and had the right to continue for the next 20 years.
Establishment of the Federalist Party pg 171 - Whether congress liked it or not, it was starting to
look a lot like political factions were starting to rise. In particular, the Federalist party was
already in full swing as they had earlier argued for a more centralized government and
promoted a lot of values such as big cities and industry. This was mainly headed by the current
president George Washington and a young Alexander Hamilton.



[PAGE 49]

Formation of the Republican Party pg 171 - The (first, there will be another Republican party
later on) Republican party was basically an anti-Federalist party, they believed in a
decentralized government and were much more in favor of individual land owners who governed
themselves and would own large tracts of land for themselves. They didn’t like big cities, or
industry, none of that. Most Republicans came from the south, while the Federalists came from
primarily the North. This was headed by Thomas Jefferson and James Madison.
Differences over the French Revolution pg 172 - As the French Revolution came into full swing,
opposing parties in the US found themselves reacting in completely different ways. The
Federalists were in horror of the execution of the king and queen and overthrowing of the
monarchy in France, while the Republicans were in wide support of the overthrow, and even
started to refer to one another as “citizens” and “citizenesses”, basically one side didn’t like the
revolution, and one side was big fans of it. Not that complicated.
Whiskey Rebellion pg 172 - If you remember, Alexander Hamilton imposed laws on farmers who
would turn a portion of their crop into whiskey and other alcohols, and people were not happy
about it, as most Americans are when they hear the word taxes. The Whisky Rebellion was
actually a collection of rebellions in the US where farmers would rise up and protest against the
taxes imposed on them. To stop this, George Washington personally led an army of 15,000 into
Pennsylvania basically to scare the people off.
Indians and the Constitution pg 173 - The Constitution barely mentions Native Americans with
like one line about how they are not taxed by the government and don’t count towards state
population. The constitution gave Congress the power to regulate commerce with foreign
nations, which included the Native Tribes in America. The constitution is really confusing about
saying Native Americans are not foreign nations, and also not citizens. Also the Constitution
says nothing bout land, so like uh oh.
TLDR: The constitution is like uh yeah Native Americans exist uh yeah uh uh congress can talk
to them i guess uh um uh they aren’t citizens uh uh um yeah fr.
Citizen Genet pg 173 - Genet is the first diplomat from a post revolution Fr*nce, and he pisses
off a lot of Americans when he pulls up to Charleston, and basically buys a bunch of weapons
and tries to recruit people to become French Privateers and go fight the Spanish in Florida.
Washington was a bit slightly mildly very angry at this, but luckily for Genet his party lost power
in France, so he was just granted Asylum and he lived a modest life as a farmer.
His name is Edmond Charles Genet
The First major test of American Neutrality
Jay’s Treaty pg 174 - Literally just like 10 years after American independence, it was looking like
another war with Britain was about to break out, as British ships had started to seize American
merchant ships in Asia, and the responsibility of diplomacy was put on John Jay, a Federalist.
The textbook doesn’t get into how Jay’s treaty actually solved the conflict between the British
and Americans, but by the way that the congress reacted super negatively, we can assume that



[PAGE 50]

most people were not fans, mainly because the treaty didn’t help get American ships back or
any payment from the British. However, Jay’s treaty did get ratified, and tensions more or less
died down between Britain and America.
According to google, it just resolved the disputes like British leaving
Pickney’s Treaty pg 174 - Pinckney’s Treaty was a treaty that was signed between Spain and
the US because there was apparently a Spanish fear that America and Britain would join forces
to challenge Spanish trade , so the treaty was there to makes sure that the Americans wouldn’t
intrude on Spanish territory in the Americas, and also the Americans would be given protection
in trading in Spanish controlled territory
Washington’s Farewell Address pg 175 - One Last Time from Hamilton! (no way it’s almost like
they made a musical based off history) Washington retired from office in 1797. In a letter written
by Hamilton mostly kinda, Washington gives his last opinions on the Party System, Republicans,
and also warned against International conflicts. This also gave a chance for Jefferson to
become president as the main Republican Candidate
Divided Federalists pg 175- Hamilton’s too controversial of a guy to run for president, so John
adams became the nominee for the Federalists. However without Washington there, the
Federalist Party broke into subgroups over who should run for president and that kind of stuff.
When Adams got elected, he was the president of a party divided into groups, where he wasn’t
even in control (Hamilton was still more influential)
The XYZ Affair pg 176 Americans arrived in Fr*nce in 1797 for negotiation and stuff, but the
Fr*nch, and specifically agents of the Foreign Minister Prince Talleyrand demanded the US give
Fr*nce a bunch of money and also bribe a ton of people before negotiations began. Of course,
this was not a good idea because like… duh, so Congress hears about this and basically
publishes the transcripts of the event and reports everywhere, with the names of the Fr*nch
Agents being Censored to Messrs X Y and Z. People in America find out about this and are a
little mad at Fr*nce
This would lead to the “quasi war” with France
The QuasiWar pg 176 - (A unoffical naval war between the Fr*nch and US) Adams persuaded
Congress to cut off all trade with France and to authorize American vessels to capture French
armed ships on the high seas. In 1798, Congress created a Department of the Navy and
appropriated money for the construction of new warships. The navy soon won a number of
duels with French vessels and captured 85 ships, including armed merchantmen. The US also
began cooperation closely with the British and became an ally of Britain in the war with
France(How the turntables)
In the end, France chose to conciliate before the conflict grew.
Alien and Sedition Acts pg 176 - The conflict with France helped the Federalists increase their
majorities in Congress in 1798. With this new strength, they began to consider ways to silence



[PAGE 51]

the Republican opposition. The result was some of the most controversial legislation in
American history: the Alien and Sedition Acts. The Alien Act placed new obstacles in the way of
immigrants, and strengthened the president’s hand in dealing with these immigrants. The
Sedition Act allowed the government to prosecute those who engaged in sedition (speech
encouraging people to rebel against the government) against the government. In theory, only
libelous or treasonous activities were subject to prosecution; but since such activities were open
to widely varying definitions, the law made it possible for the federal government to stifle almost
any opposition.
TO FUTURE JUNIORS TAKING READING QUIZ: Don’t just say that these acts
Virginia and Kentucky Resolutions pg 177 - Republican leaders who believed that states had the
power to nullify congressional legislation laid out a theory for state action in two sets of
resolutions in 1798-1799. The Kentucky Resolution was written anonymously by Jefferson and
the Virginia one was drafted by Madison. These Resolutions used the ideas of John Locke to
argue that the federal government had been formed by a contract among the states and
possessed only certain delegated powers. Whenever the federal government exercised any
undelegated powers, its acts were voided. The Kentucky resolution claimed that they had the
right to nullify the appropriate laws if the parties to the states determined that the central
government had exceeded those powers.
BASICALLY: Republicans didn’t want the ALien and Sedition acts anymore. They think that the
states should have the right to judge federal laws and that acts laid down by the gov that were
too extreme would be void and of no force.
The Election of 1800 pg 177 - YEAH YEAH THIS WAS THE SHIT THAT GOT HAMILTON
KILLED!!! So basically, Adams and Jefferson were competing for the spot of president, and a
whole bunch of drama happened. Strap in boys, because shit’s about to get wild. The campaign
was an ugly one, while the candidates displayed dignity, their supporters were going bonkers.
The Federalists accused Jefferson of being a dangerous radical and his followers of being wild
men who would bring on a reign of terror comparable to that of the French Revolution. The
Republicans portrayed Adams as a tyrant conspiring to become king, and accused the
Federalists of plotting to subvert human liberty and impose slavery on the people. There were
also considerable personal insults as well. For example, it was during this campaign that the
story of Jefferson’s romantic involvement with a slave woman on his plantation was first widely
aired. It was close, and the crucial contest was in New York. There, Aaron Burr(Sir) had
mobilized an organization of Revolutionary War veterans, the Tammany Society, to serve as a
Republican political machine. And through Tammany’s efforts, the Republicans carried the city
by a large majority, and with it, the state. Jefferson was, apparently, elected. But an unexpected
complication soon jeopardized the Republican victory. This is where it gets good. So each
person now had to vote for two people, instead of just voting for the presidential candidate and
for the vice presidential candidate. To avoid a tie, Republicans came up with a weird plan where
only one person will not vote for Burr. Of course, the plan failed. Jefferson and Burr tied, and a
long ballot process ensued. Finally, Hamilton casted the deciding vote in favor of Jefferson,
because he thought Burr to be untrustworthy.
TL;DR Adams vs TJefferson - supporters of each were really wild. Feds accused Jefferson of
being dangerous and his followers being a dangerous radical and his followers being a bunch of
losers. Republicans said Adams wanted to become a tyrant and said he would make the people

