[PAGE 52]

slaves. There was some controversy about how Jefferson was romantic with one of his slaves.
Aaron Burr ahd mobilized a bunch of revolutionary war vets (Tammany Society) to help win New
York fo the Republicans. Jefferson gets elected but then there’s some complication where they
need to develop a plan for each person to vote for two people instead of the vice and president.
The plan fails and TJ and ABurr tie. Hamilton chooses TJ.
The Judiciary Act of 1801 pg 178 - After the election of 1800, the only branch of the federal
government in Federalist hands was the judiciary. The Adams administration spent its last
months in office taking steps to make the party’s hold on the courts secure. By the Judiciary Act
of 1801, passed by the lame duck Congress(huh??? WHAT? According to the textbook ) The act
decreased the amount of supreme justices by one but increased the federal judges by a lot.
The Jeffersonian Vision pg 181 Jefferson viewed America as a society of independent farmers
free from Industry and the Urban Sprawls of Europe. He would promote localism and simplicity,
with a weakened central government.
BASICALLY Anti-Fed stuff
However in reality, America was developing in the opposite direction with more and more cities
and flowing commerce and industrialism. Jefferson helped weaken the Federal government, but
he also found himself in situations where a Central government was necessary for the function
of the country.
Importance of Virtuous Citizenry pg 181 Jefferson wanted all the Citizens of America to be
educated. He believed that all white male citizens should be educated for free. Some states
endorsed free education, but nobody really followed through. Schooling would be something for
private institutions more of the time than not.
Private Schooling pg 181 Most of the time. Only those who could afford education would you
know, be educated. Many Private schools are run by religious groups, and end up with a mostly
aristocratic school population training to become the nation’s elite
NEw Educational Opportunities for Women pg 182 Before, women often did not get educated at
all, and at least 50% of women were illiterate in the colonies. However, people started thinking
“how can we have educated kids if the people raising kids aren’t educated?” and this brilliant
line of thinking led to the creation of Female academies throughout the nation. In addition, more
Feminist ideals start to appear as women argue for the rights to education and more
independence.
Higher Education pg 182 - higher education was less widely available than education at lower
levels, despite Republican hopes for a wide dispersion of advanced knowledge.(Jefferson
formed the University of Virginia to promote that ideal.) The number of colleges and universities
in America grew from nine at the start of the Revolution to a whopping twenty-two, and
continued to increase. None of these new schools was truly public. Even those established by
state legislatures relied on private contributions and on tuition fees. Scarcely more than one
white man in a thousand (and no women, African Americans, or Indigenous) had access to
college education.



[PAGE 53]

Indian Education pg 182 - Reformers who believed in the power of education to reform and
redeem ignorant and “backward” people spurred a growing interest in Indigenous education.
Because Jefferson and his followers liked to think of Native Americans as “noble savages”, they
hoped that schooling the indigenous in white culture would tame and “uplift” the tribes. Although
the governments did little to promote Indigenous education, missionaries and mission schools
increased rapidly among the tribes.
Almost no one thought that there was a need to educate African Americans.
Benjamin Rush pg 183 A Philadelphia physician that figured out that sanitation was actually
important for hospitals and doctors . This was an extremely revolutionary and new idea that
helped stop disease.
He still took some Ls though - he believed in bleeding as a medical solution - which would
technically lead to Washington’s death as he dies of infection from bleeding (oh well)
Decline of Midwifery pg 183 - In the early nineteenth century, physicians began to handle
deliveries themselves and to demand restrictions on the role of midwives. Among the results of
that change was a narrowing of opportunities for women(midwifery was an important female
occupation) and a restriction of access to childbirth care for poor mothers.
Establishment of a National Culture pg 183 - Many Americans in the Jeffersonian era may have
rejected the Federalist belief in political and economic centralization, but most embraced
another form of nationalism with great passion. Having won political independence from Europe,
they now aspired to a form of cultural independence.In the process, they wanted American
literary and artistic life that could rival those in Europe. As a popular “Poem on the Rising Glory
of America” had predicted as early as 1772, Americans believed that their “happy land” was
destined to become the “seat of empire” and the final stage of civilization.
Noah Webster pg 184 - Webster is the guy who insisted on a more simple spelling(Color instead
of colour). His American Spelling Book , first published in 1783 and commonly known as the
“blue-backed speller,” eventually sold over 100 million copies. It became the best-selling book
(except for the Bible) in the history of American publishing. Also, his school dictionary, issued in
1806, was republished in many editions and was eventually enlarged to become An American
Dictionary of the English Language in 1828. His speller and his dictionary established a national
standard of words and usages.
Washington Irving pg 184 - Washington Irving was a resident of New York State and won wide
acclaim for his satirical histories of early American life and powerful tales of society in the New
World. His popular folklores, narrating the adventures of American agrarians like Ichabod Crane
and Rip Van Winkle (I need to hire this guy to name my kid) made him “critically acclaimed”
leader of American literary life in his era and one of the few writers of that time whose books
would be continued to be read by later generations.



[PAGE 54]

Deism pg 184 - A “religion” that accepted the existence of God, but considered God a remote
being who withdrew from common affairs after creating the universe.(So pretty much atheists)
Books and articles attacking religious “superstitions” attracted wide readership and induced lots
of discussions, and among them was Thomas Paine’s The Age of Reason , published in parts
from 1794 to 1796. Paine once called Christianity the “strangest religion ever set up,” because
“it committed a murder upon Jesus in order to redeem mankind from the sin of eating an apple”.
Cane Ridge pg 185 - By 1800, the revivalist energies of all the sects were combining to create
the greatest surge of evangelical fever since the first Great Awakening(Wow who’d have thunk
it! It’s almost like it’s the SECOND Great awakening! OH WAIT, IT IS!!!!!) Beginning among
Presbyterians in several eastern colleges, it soon spread rapidly throughout the country,
reaching its greatest heights in the western regions. In just a few years, a large portion of the
American people were mobilized by the movement, and membership in churches that embraced
the revival, like the Methodists, the Baptists, and the Presbyterians, skyrocketed. At Cane
Ridge, a group of evangelical ministers presided over the nation’s first “camp meeting” , an
extraordinary revival that lasted several days and impressed all who saw it with its size. (An
estimated 25,000 people attended)
Message of the Second Great Awakening pg 185 - Basically, individuals must re-admit God and
Christ (religion yippee) into their daily lives, have to embrace an intense and active piety, and
must reject the rationalism that threatened traditional beliefs. The Second Great Awakening
failed to revive the religious ideas of the past. Few of the revivalist sects still accepted the idea
of predestination; and the belief that a person could change his or her own destiny added more
fuel to the individual’s search for salvation. In short, the Awakening combined a more active
piety with a belief in God as an active force in the world. It also accelerated the growth of
different sects. It helped create a broad popular acceptance of the idea that men and women
could belong to different Protestant churches and still be committed to essentially the same
Christian faith.
Week 5 (I’ll start my dues here - Joyce) A NEW CHALLENGER APPROACHES!!!!!
African Americans and the Revivals pg 188: Although Revivalism was popular in white society,
revivalism was a huge thing within African American communities. The religious ideals were
widely embraced by African American communities which resulted in a group of substantial
black preachers who were important within slave communities. Some of these preachers said
the egalitarian religious message of the second awakening was a message for the black people
Revival meetings in Virginia also resulted in an elaborate slave rebellion plan in the 1800s which
was discovered and caused a lot of racial tension in the South.
Indians and the Second Great Awakening pg 188: Tons of Natives suffered in the aftermath of
the American Revolution, leading a ton of tribes to have a sense of crisis, resulting in an era of
Indigenous religious fervor and prophecy. These conversions were mostly sparked by baptist



[PAGE 55]

and Presbyterian missionaries. Seemingly, it was also sparked by some random prophet named
Handsome Lake (LMFAOOO) who had a “rebirth” after suffering years of alcoholism, and
because this was seemingly so amazing, they gave him a high rank within his tribe??? Bro idk,
he also said he met jesus, who instructed him to tell his people that they shouldn’t “follow the
ways of the white man” and then that inspired a ton of Indigenous to give up gambling, drinking,
and other bad habits derived from white society.
Freethinkers pg 188: someone else do this one i like green
Freethinkers are like those atheist redditors kinda i think? Book doesn’t say much other than
they were people who disagreed with the Second Great Awakening, and that they kinda went
away as the Great Awakening grew larger and larger
Eli Whitney’s Cotton Gin pg 189: The cotton gin was an amazing invention that removed the
seeds out of the cotton, which was really difficult to do, and usually took many hours of skilled,
and laborious work just to produce 3 pounds of cotton in a day. (The gin in it’s name is an
abbreviation of engine apparently). The machine was a simple machine which contained a
toothed roller that caught the fibers of the cotton and pulled them between the wires of a grating.
The grating then caught the seeds while a revolving brush removed the lint from the rollers
teeth. With this invention, a single operator could clean as much cotton in a few hours as a
group of workers cleaning cotton for a whole day.
The Cotton Gin’s Impact on the NORTH pg 189: As cotton became easier to harvest, demand
went up, and many entrepreneurs in New England and elsewhere had strong incentives to start
a textile business. In the Northern states, it was pretty hard to do agricultural business but by
learning how to turn cotton into yarn and thread, plantation owners could make tons of money in
the industrial industry instead. But with this emerging industrial textile movement in the North,
there was a wedge driven between the nations two most populous regions, one becoming
increasingly industrial, while the other still being very rooted in agriculture.
Mewomeowmeowmeowmeowmeowmeow
Rapid Growth of American Shipping pg 189: There were multiple ways to solve the problem of
the small American market. One of these ways was to look for customers overseas. Among the
first acts of the new Congress when it met in 1789 were two tariff (Tariff and Collection Act) bills
giving preference to American ships in American ports; stimulating an expansion of domestic
shipping. More importantly was the wars that broke out over Europe in the 1790s, allowing
American merchant vessels to carry most of the trade between Europe and the Western
Hemisphere. Very early on, America had a merchant marine and a booming foreign trade
economy. (Second only to England) The United States had more ships and international
commerce per capita than any other country.
Robert Fulton’s Steamboat pg 190



[PAGE 56]

MY BOY ROBERT FULTON IS PACKIN and he pulls up on them 7 seas (not true) with the
Steamboat. Named Clermont , this baby is equipped with paddle wheels and an ENGINE and he
pulls up on the Hudson. Even though it is slow as heck (30 hours for 150 miles), It still highlights
the viability of steamboats as a new form of transportation for goods and people.
The Turnpike era pg 190 In 1792, a corporation constructed a toll road running the sixty miles
from Philadelphia to Lancaster. This road proved so successful that several other companies
laid out similar turnpikes (named for the kind of tollgate that was frequently used) from other
cities to neighboring towns. These roads had to be profitable, so they were only made in short
distances and through densely populated areas.
Urban Life pg 191 People living in towns and cities lived differently than the vast majority of
Americans who continued to work as farmers. Urban life produced affluence, amongst other
things. Affluent people often sought amenities that were so luxurious, they could only be used
by the wealthy farmers. They sought increasing elegance and refinement in their homes, their
properties, and their clothes. They also looked for activities–music, theater, dancing, and, most
popularly, horse racing.
The New Capital City pg 193 The new national capital was the city of Washington. A Fr*nch(ew)
YOU WANNA PLAY LET'S PLAY NO CHAMBER I DON'T WANNA PLAYarchitect by the name
of Pierre L’Enfant(This guys name…) designed the capital on a grand scale, with broad avenues
coming(Ayo?!?) out of the uncompleted Capitol building, set on one of the highest hills in the
area. Many Americans believed it would be the Paris of the United States. However, throughout
Jefferson’s presidency and most of the 19th century, it was nothing more than a little village.
Although the population steadily increased, it never competed with the likes of New York,
Philadelphia, or other major cities. The city remained an inhospitable community with very few
public buildings. Members of Congress viewed Washington as nothing more than a place to
briefly visit during the sessions of the legislature. It was not unusual for a member of Congress
to resign in the middle of a session to return home if he could accept the more prestigious post
of member of his state legislature.
Jefferson the Politician pg 193 Jefferson is a smart guy, and he knows how big of a deal being
the president is. He prioritizes unity and cohesion, doing this in a few ways
1. He makes the seat of president look less like a king all majestic and the like, but still
exerts his influence on the Republicans
2. He also gets a lot more people into the Federal Government as Republicans, making his
party more powerful
These things lead to Jefferson’s landslide reelection victory in 1804
Limiting the Federal Government pg 195 Jefferson is an Anti Federalist/Republican, so he
believes that the States should have more power. In addition, he also believes that the
Government is spending too much overall, leading to lots of debt (thanks hamilton) which leads
to more taxes (like that one whiskey one that is mildly controversial)



[PAGE 57]

Jefferson made it a point to reverse this trend, by persuading Congress to abolish internal taxes
and reducing government spending. Jefferson is able to cut the Debt in almost half (83 to 45
million jeez)
Jefferson also scaled down the army by almost half and cut the navy by a lot. But at the same
time, he puts a lot of effort into establishing a military academy so that he can train soldiers
when he needs them (he’s gonna need them)
Challenging the Barbary Pirates pg 195 and this is why. The Barbary States of Northern Africa
demand “protection money” from all ships passing by, and even England just pays up. However
Jefferson sees paying these guys as appeasement and he pulls up to try and wipe the Pirates
out. This goes kind of badly not really. Jefferson reaches an agreement with the Pirates that
makes them leave American Ships alone, but the US pays 60k in ransom money for the release
of some prisoners, which is seen as humiliating by many.
Judicial Review pg 195 Federalists had long maintained the view that the Supreme Court had
the authority to nullify acts of Congress(despite the fact that the Constitution said nothing about
it), and the Court had exercised the power of judicial review in 1796 when it upheld the validity
of a law passed by the legislature. The Court’s authority in this area would not be secure until it
actually declared a congressional act unconstitutional.
Marbury V Madison pg 195 In 1803, in the case of Marbury v. Madison , it did so. William
Marbury, one of Adams’s “midnight appointments,” had been named a justice of the peace in the
District of Columbia. But his commission had not been delivered to him before Adams left office.
Once Jefferson became president, James Madison, the new secretary of state, refused to had
the commission to Marbury, even though it was already signed and sealed by Adams. Marbury
appealed to the Supreme Court for an order directing Madison to do his duty. In the ruling, the
Court found that Marbury had a right to his commission but it ordered that Madison had no
authority to deliver it. In the end, Marbury never got his commission.
TL;DR In 1803, the case of Marbury v. Madison happened. William Marbury had been chosen
as a judge by President Adams, but his official papers (commission) weren’t given to him before
Adams left office. When Jefferson became president, James Madison refused to give Marbury
the papers. Marbury asked the Supreme Court to make Madison hand them over. The Court
said Marbury should have gotten his commission, but also said Madison didn’t have the power
to give it to him. So in the end, Marbury never got the job.
John Marshall pg 196 Ok here's a funny thing: John Marshall, before becoming chief justice of
the Supreme Court, was Adams's secretary of state. Mr.Marshall was actually the one who
didn’t want to give Marbury the commission. Anyway, John Marshall, immediately after being
appointed to chief justice, established himself as the most dominant figure on the Court, shaping
all of its most important rulings. Through a succession of Republican administrations, he
established the judiciary as a branch of government coequal with the executive and the
legislative–a position that the founders of the republic never clearly indicated it should occupy.



[PAGE 58]

TL;DR Marshall made the Judiciary branch as a dominant figurehead between the Executive
and Legislative branches, which is what the founding fathers didn’t want. Dude was Adams’s
secretary of state and didn’t deliver Marbury’s commission. Very strong dude.
Impeachment of Samuel Chase pg 196 Ok so the Republicans have a lot of power but this
Samuel Chase guy is one of the few remaining Federalist Supreme Court Judges in power at
the time. A lot of republicans don’t like this guy so they try and impeach him under the grounds
of “we don’t like him and because of that he probably sucks at his job and he probably also
hates the people”. However Chase gets acquitted, which sets an important precedent where
impeachment is not used as a political tool for parties to gain power .
Toussaint L’Ouverture pg 198 An African slave on the French controlled island Santo Domingo,
he and hundreds of other African slaves on the island managed a revolt that overthrew the
French regime there and freed themselves, with Toussaint as its leader of the new Republic.
This republic didn’t last long, as Napoleon brought back French rule via military intervention.
AP WORLD REFERENCE????
Napoleon’s Offer pg 199 Napoleon realizes that he can’t fight everyone in Europe and conquer
America at the same time, plus his troops in the Americas get wiped by disease, so Napoleon
wants to get rid of his American Territory. Also because Jefferson looks like he’s gonna fight in
New Orleans and Napoleon ain't got time for that. So Napoleon offers the entirety of the
Louisiana Territory to Jefferson. America Pays $15 million and gives some extra rights for the
French in New Orleans for the whole thing on April 30,1803.
Jefferson didn’t have the authority to do this but the government was like “WOAH WHAT A
DEAL” so they let him
Jefferson’s Quandary pg 200 Jefferson, being an antifederalist, believes that the Federal
Government only has the powers specifically given to it by the constitution , which just so
happens does NOT include the ability to acquire land. Jefferson’s advisers tell him it counts as
“treaty making”, so it’s all good, and Jefferson basically goes “welp uh we change the rules
when they are too vague to do stuff we want to do”(WHICH IS WHAT THE FEDERALISTS
WERE SAYING ALL ALONG YOU HYPOCRITE)
Zebulon Pike pg 201 Zebulon Pike, full name Zebulon Montgomery Pike, is a guy who leads an
expedition from St. Louis to the upper Mississippi Valley. He then sets out to the Arkansas River
and Colorado where he tries (and fails) to climb a mountain that’s named after him some time
later. He basically becomes a source of major Misinformation when he says that the land
between the Missouri River and the Rockies was an extreme, desolate desert (wtf).
Essex Junto pg 201 A group of extreme Federalists that decide that the only logical thing to do
here is to secede from the union and form a “Northern Confederacy” (oh wow uh… didn’t know
about this until now uh yeah this is ironic…) However this group needs the support of New
Jersey and New York to really be able to do this. Hamilton, who is like the main Federalist, and
is in New York is not on board with this plan, and he basically says “bruh wtf no”. So this group
turns to Hamilton’s Rival Aaron Burr (sir), who has been kind of powerless in the current political
world.



[PAGE 59]

Hamilton and Burr pg 201 HAHAHA OF COURSE IM GOING TO DO THIS ONE (the world
WAS wide enough)
Burr became the Federalist candidate for the 1804 Election, but there were rumors that Burr
supported the plans to secede from the Union, leading Hamilton to make a bunch of very mean
comments and also formally accuse Burr of Treason against the US. Hamilton’s remarks and
also his final vote led to Burr not winning the New York Election. Burr blames Hamilton for his
failure, and the two duel. Hamilton gets shot and dies in the duel. This was still a L for Burr
because as far as everyone else in the colonies knows, Burr shot his main political rival after he
blamed him for losing the Election, so he has to flee New York. Burr tries to become a political
power a few times over, and then he gets arrested, acquitted, and then kind of disgraced for the
rest of his life, but the fact he got away kinda sucks.
This whole debacle highlights the imperfections of a weak central government, where people
can undermine the government and get away with it kind of…
Ryan, are we done?
Uhhh, this is just the point where my fingers got tired during my TA period plus Mr Dunn told me
to go sort lab trays…
What page do we go up to?
I guess up to somewhere in the 223 region??? (oh shit)
. . .
READING QUIZ#6 INFO ENDS HERE
The Napoleonic Wars pg 202 Later in Thomas Jefferson’s presidency, two very different
conflicts were taking shape. They would draw the United States into a difficult and frustrating
war. One was the continued tension in Europe, which escalated in 1803 into yet another



[PAGE 60]

full-scale conflict. The Napoleonic Wars saw both England and France taking steps to prevent
the US from trading with the other.
READING QUIZ#5 INFO ENDS HERE
America’s Predicament pg 203 American ships were caught between Napoleon’s decrees and
Britain’s orders in council. If they sailed directly for the European continent, they risked being
captured by the British navy, and if they sailed for British ports, then they risked seizure from the
Fr*nch. Both of the nations were violating America’s rights as a neutral nation. Most Americans
considered the British, with their greater navy, the worst of the two.
Chesapeake-Leopard Incident pg 203 In the summer of 1807, the British went to even more
extreme measures in an incident involving a vessel of the American navy. Sailing for NOrfolk,
with “deserters” from the British navy among the crew, the American naval frigate Chesapeake
encountered the British ship Leopard . When the American commander, James Barron, refused
British access to their ship, the Leopard opened fire. Barron had to surrender, and a boarding
party dragged four men off the frigate. Obviously, this caused immense outrage in America, and
if congress was in session, it might have declared war.
The Embargo pg 204: It was basically an act that stopped American trade in foreign ports. It
was signed by Jefferson in December of 1807. France passed a law that stopped trade between
countries like the U.S. and Britain. In simpler terms, it closed U.S. ports to all exports and
restricted imports from Britain as an attempt to avert war. It was widely evaded but still hit the
nation hard, putting the US in a depression of some sort. The hardest hit were the merchants
and shipowners of the Northeast, most of them Federalists.
Non-Intercourse Act pg 204: AyOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO
Apparently it’s actually a law passed to replace the embargo act and it reopened trade with all
nations BUT Britain and France. A year after it was enacted, congress allowed it to expire and
replaced it again with Macon’s Bill No.2 which reopened trade with Britain and France but under
conditions. Napoleon announced that France would no longer interfere w/ American shipping
and low Madison announced that unless Britain renounced its restrictions on American shipping,
they would make an embargo against Britain. Eventually, the British government repealed its
blockade of Europe but it was too late to prevent the war.
William Henry Harrison pg 205: William Henry Harrison was a 26 year old Virginian with veteran
experience in fighting Indigenous peoples and taking their land, and a congressional delegate in
1799 representing the Northwest Territory(remember, these areas aren’t quite states just yet).
So what did this guy DO? Harrison implemented the Harrison Land Law in 1800, which



[PAGE 61]

gave White settlers easier access to the newly acquired American territory than before ,
how was this done you might ask? Well, Harrison made the price of buying Western land halved
right out the gate, but you would still have to pay full price by making sure you paid the rest of
the price over the course of 4 years. Why did this work? Put simply, buying land West was a
little too expensive in the past, since you would hafta pay so much upfront, the new law allowed
for more middle-class Americans looking to pursue new environments and easier access to land
west of the Eastern coast.
Jefferson’s Offer pg 205: Now, as we just saw, Harrison managed to make it easier for people to
acquire land, but there was a slight problem…there were people who were on the land, and they
had been there for generations before the white settlers so rudely barged in. Jefferson
nicknamed this the…uh…”Indian problem.” :| Which is just…wonderful. SO, what did Jefferson
do about–”that”? Jefferson offered the Indigenous peoples a choice, either they assimilate
into White society by farming, or they could move west (the first option would be later
removed by Andrew Jackson :)) why we still have him on money infuriates me).
The Prophet’s Message pg 206 ‘The Prophet’ in this context wasn’t actually a REAL prophet
title, but rather somebody’s name, and honestly, Prophet is a cool name. The pronunciation for
the name would be Tenskwatawa, and he experienced “mystical awakenings” as the textbook
calls em, in which he was shown the evil of the White settlers encroaching on their land. NOW,
you might be thinking, well, basically ALL Indigenous people already considered and knew the
White settlers were definitely not the Indigenous people’s best friends, so why is this important?
‘The Prophet’ not only was his name, but also HIS TITLE WAHAHA I TRICKED YOU KINDA,
meaning that Prophet’s word was him interpreting the spirits around him. Real quick, let’s step
back and take a look at all these factors: 1. Indigenous people are VERY UNHAPPY with some
random mayo monkeys coming out of nowhere and taking the land they had been living on for
generations 2. A person who has RELIGIOUS AUTHORITY reaffirms that the crackers are evil
and what they bring will be nothing but strife. What does this mean? PEOPLE ARE FUMING,
and they have LEGITAMATE ARGUMENTS TO and it is this shared anger that causes a BIG
religious revival amongst Indigenuos communities, far and wide around the area West of the
East coast.
Tecumseh’s Strategy pg 207 Te WHAT seh??? Tecumseh was a very famous Seminole war
chief, he’s cold asf trust me.
WOO! Tecumseh BIG MAN. Tecumseh was chief of the Shawnee tribe, and was a big advocate
for fighting back using violence against the White settlers taking Indigenous land. Tecumseh’s
Strategy was to unite all the Indigenous peoples in the Mississippi Valley together to halt White
settlers from continuing their expansion into the West, and to make the Ohio river the border to
US controlled territory and Indigenous land.
Tecumseh also argued that the individual tribes in the Mississippi area that had given up their
land via contracts to the US was bullshit. He argued that these contracts were made without the



[PAGE 62]

consent of all the other tribes, and that because of this, the White settlers had no real title to the
land.
Real quick, why do I like Tecumseh so much? Tecumseh was a very accomplished warrior, who
went sicko mode whenever he wanted and was basically the epitome of “f” it we ball” and never
shied away from fighting the US settlers, even though he was mostly unsuccessful, he had a
number of victories in the war of 1812. Basically fighter guy cool.
Battle of Tippecanoe pg 207 SO, if you remember, ‘The Prophet’ was a PRETTY influential
figure in the Mississippi valley area, and his headquarters was a place named “Prophetstown”
which was around the Tippecanoe area. Him and his brother, Tecumseh were normally camped
here, but in 1811, Tecumseh left to travel south and visit the other tribes to try to get them to join
his goal in making a large Indigenous alliance to fight off White settlers. During Tecumseh’s
absence, William Henry Harrison(yeah the guy from earlier) brought a thousand soldiers and
started a fight in November, managing to burn the town but with HEAVY White casualty. This
was the battle. Why is this battle important? Well, because of “The Prophet”, it was believed the
town was magical and would be protected from violence, but this was a clear sign there was
nothing magical in sight. This caused many to leave the cause, albeit with a good number still
staying behind to fight
War Hawks pg 208 Representatives of both Political Parties that are itchin’ for a war with Britain.
Most are Nationalists who want to expand American Territory even more, Others are people
who are really into Republican Values. One of them, Henry Clay, becomes Speaker of the
House in 1811 and puts all his war wanting buddies into Committees, including the Committee
on Foreign Affairs and everyone starts planning to go and conquer Canada. (this does not go
well)
Early Defeats pg 208 The war of 1812 was now more alive than ever, with the Americans very
ready to fight a war yet again. They started by invading Canada via supply lines in
detroit…which went terribly and they were forced to retreat. Thanks to the fact that the British
navy was mostly occupied fighting a certain French dictator, America actually got a couple
victories out on the open seas, but when the English ships came back from fighting in the
English channel, the tide quickly turned in favor of the English. Basically, everything was going
wrong for the yanks.
Put-In-Bay pg 208 The only place the US seemed to not catch Ls and have their maidens few
was in the Great Lakes, where they took control of Lake Ontario, and later through the efforts of
a young Oliver Perry, they managed to also take control of Put-in-Bay in 1813, which is SUPER
IMPORTANT because it meant that the US could move troops into Canada via Detroit super
easily. This small victory by some guy who’s name is more associated with a duck-billed
mammal snowballed into something more. William Henry Harrison managed to push up the
Thames and into upper Canada and defeated Tecumseh, killing the chief in the process ( D: ),



[PAGE 63]

which greatly destroyed the morale of the Indigenous fighters, while also punching massive
holes in the British and Indigenous armies.
The British Invasion pg 208 After Napoleon Surrenders, the British pull up against the US,
sailing up the Patuxent River to Bladensburg, which is near Washington. On August 24, 1814,
the British burn the White House and other public buildings as retaliation for burning the
Canadian Capital of York. The Bri ish then move toward Baltimore, where many Americans were
preparing for battle at Fort McHenry. The battle at Fort McHenry would become the events
described in the National Anthem “The Star Spangled Banner”
Battle of New Orleans pg 209 A large group of highly experienced British troops (basically the
equivalent of modern day commandos) arrived in New Orleans, looking to make some headway
up North through the Mississippi. The army to meet the British commandos there was a certain
Andrew Jackson with a ragtag bunch of Tennessean, Kentuckian, Creolean militia, African
Americans (doesn’t say free or not, so can’t specify sorry) (it said “free men of color”) , pirates,
and regular infantry.
Jackson and his forces got ready to fend off a siege, getting ready defenses in New Orleans,
where they managed to successfully repel the British troops, seemingly beating the odds also
because like sieges are tough for the attackers dude, positional advantages and all( ._.)
Nonetheless, it was an impressive victory, with 700 dead, 1400 wounded, and 500 PoWs, all
redcoats. Whereas Jackson’s forces suffered only 8 killed and 13 wounded which might be a
little fake but if it isn’t, quite impressive. (I still hate Andrew Jackson)
Hartford Convention pg 210 SO, I know I made it definitely sound like the Americans were
literally eating the British alive, but in reality, these were handpicked victories that the textbook
made a big deal out of, and doesn’t really say much about the fact that the Americans were
losing literally everywhere else. This caused the American people to be VERY unhappy, and in
New England, where the Federalist party was somehow still the majority party there, delegates
from the state agreed to meet up in Hartford Connecticut to discuss grievances (and possibly
start a new Federalist-led nation just like our big man e-sex from a while back). The idea of
secession WAS brought up, but was not fully supported and it never happened, but WAS
proposed were 7 new amendments to the Constitution, which were designed to protect New
England from influence of the South and West. This never happened however, since word of
Jackson’s victory in New Orleans got out, basically nobody respected the Federalists anymore,
so yeah.
Treaty of Ghent pg 210 The Treaty of Ghent was a treaty signed on Christmas eve of 1814, and
was named “Ghent '' after the Dutch city it was signed in. This treaty basically made Britain give
up territories in the Northwest, ending the war, and also made each other promise that they
would both work on ending the slave trade . (Bellas said all it really did was stop fighting, thats
probably why it didn't say much in the book)



[PAGE 64]

Additional treaties (I included this) In my opinion, they should have just put down a singular
vocab term for like “treaties” in general, but there is another important treaty to discuss, and that
is a commercial treaty in 1815 which allowed the Americans and the English to trade to their
own delight without intervention. WHAT DO ALL THESE TREATIES MEAN? This means that
the US is REALLY committed to fixing relations with European powers, since they know that
Europe is still their largest customer and they need to keep these relations intact.
Rush Bagot Agreement pg 211 The Rush Bagot agreement basically had both the English and
the US drop their guns in the Great Lakes area.
Postwar Issues pg 215 If you remember, the war of 1812 cut off imports for a while, which did
help the domestic manufacturing industry, but also brought with it a lot of chaos in the shipping
and banking industry for obvious reasons. This also exposed the fact that American
infrastructure for trade was just straight up awful, although the textbook doesn’t say why :)). The
important thing to note for this term is that the aftermath of the war left the country in a tough
financial spot, and made the American government focus once again on its economy.
Second Bank of the United States pg 215 In 1811, the first Bank of the US had its charter
expire, and a large number of state banks started opening up, and although these were popular,
the banks didn’t have enough money to really back the notes up. Another problem with these
state banks was that there were a lot of different bank notes in circulation that were not super
easily traced back to their origins, meaning that there was yet another currency problem in the
US, with confusion and counterfeiting everywhere(you could just say “uh… this bank note is
from xyz state haha, give me money). In order to combat this, Congress chartered the second
Bank of the US in 1816, and was basically the exact same bank that Hamilton founded in 1791
but it had more capital and was more heavily sponsored. Even though it had no power to issue
currency, its size allowed it to be virtually everywhere, and it put other banks out of business.
Growth of the Textile Industry pg 216 Because of the US government shutting down imports, the
American manufacturing industry boomed, with the textile industry in particular leading the way
between 1807 and 1815. This was not only because of the aforementioned factor, but also
because of the invention of the Cotton Gin, which made domestic production of cotton absurdly
high. Francis Cabot Lowell in 1813 created a super powerful loom that was a lot more efficient
than its English counterpart, and also founded the first mill in America that was meant for
spinning and weaving at the same time.
A Protective Tariff pg 216 In 1816, a group named “protectionists” in Congress managed to pass
a Tariff law that limited FOREIGN competition in American domestic markets, with cotton cloth
being the one that was most limited, this would sponsor more domestic competition and would
hopefully raise the strength of the American economy. Doesn’t really say the effects of this tariff
at all, which is a very APUSH textbook thing to do. :/



[PAGE 65]

Government Funded Roads pg 217 AMERICA ROAD BAD! This was the sentiment that a lot of
people had, despite turnpikes and the steamboat, there was still an issue with the fact that there
weren’t any roads that were recognized by the government, making it harder for people to travel
throughout the American east coast. Jefferson and his secretary Albert Gallatin proposed that
revenues from the Ohio land sales should be used to finance a National Road from the Potomac
River to the Ohio River. This was quickly approved by congress and in 1811, it went into
construction, and by 1818 the highway was finished. These quickly became pretty traffic filled
roads, and along with the Lancaster turnpike, the transportation issue was one step closer to
being solved, and the domestic market for goods, specifically textiles and cotton grew even
larger than before.
Steamboats pg 217 Robert Fulton’s steamboat was a major success and unlike the roads on
land, they didn’t need much work. The War of 1812 obviously halted the development of trade in
the rivers of the US, but once that was all solved, steamboats would travel up and down the
rivers carrying cargo, and helped the agricultural trade between the West and the South to the
East .
Vetoing Internal Improvements pg 218 As we discussed, the economy of the US was still kind of
not doing so hot, mainly because of a lack of infrastructure. It was apparent when the British
blockaded American trade in the Atlantic, which greatly stifled the American economy, and there
was a demand for this issue to be fixed. Representative John C Calhoun proposed a bill that
would use funds owed to the government by the Bank to be instead used to fix internal
problems. Seems great right? Presiden Madison would agree, but he vetoed the bill, why? He
argued that congress simply didn’t have the power or money to do such a thing, and argued that
state governments and private enterprises should be the ones to fix these issues instead.
Reasons for Westward Expansion pg 218 Put simply, the US had way too much to gain by
moving west. By moving west, not only did the US gain obviously more land, but they also
diversified the economy while simultaneously improving it since it cost so little to fund the
expansion. It also gave way to more cultures in the US, which we know today to be one of the
core values of the modern US and a reason why the US is so successful.
The Factor System pg 218 The Factor System was another way that the US intended to push
the Indigenous peoples out of their homes to make way for White settlers. This system would
have government factors(agents) supply tribes that were kicked out of their homes for a cost.
This solved 2 problems, now Indigenous peoples were more willing to leave(but that’s really
because of the guns and numbers of the White settlers), and also kicked out Canadian traders
from the area, therefore strengthening the American domestic economy.
Cotton and the Expansion of Slavery pg 219 Cotton economy was booming in the South.
Because of this high demand for cotton and the fact that cotton was so lucrative, many
Southerners moved west, making plantations pop up with them, making the cotton market
larger…and also the slave population larger.



[PAGE 66]

Astor’s American Fur Company pg 219 Thanks to the expansion West by the US, a large fur
industry had popped up in the Western territories of the US. John Jacob Astor had a fur
company based in Astoria (clever ass name) in Oregon, but sold it once the War of 1812 came.
After the war ended he moved into the Rockies and further up the Missouri River.
Why did the purple change out of no where? Wait no thats a different person nvm no way??
Real 3 am skibidi toilet ohio rizz fr fr ong no cap on ja based sigma reddit 100
The Fur Trade and the Market Economy pg 219 Originally the fur trade was just buying shit from
American Indian tribes then reselling them, but many white fur traders began moving in and
hunting on their own, expanding West into what is now New Mexico and Utah. US fur traders
who lived in areas with more Indigenous and Mexican populations also tended to live in a more
friendly relationship with their neighbors, with ⅔ US trappers marrying women of Indigenous or
Mexican backgrounds in the West.
Stephen Long’s Expedition pg 220 Stephen H. Long, fueled by the fervor of the Western
territories that many of the East Coast city folk didn’t know about led an expedition in 1819 to
1820 with 19 soldiers up the Platte and South Platte rivers in heat is now Nebraska and Eastern
Colorado, returning along the Arkansas River and what is now Kansas. This allowed the US to
have a better understanding of these Northwest areas for later settlement.
The Virginia Dynasty pg 221 ‘The Virginia Dynasty’ referred to how since 1800, all presidents
were Virginians, Thomas Jefferson, then James Madison, and then James Monroe as secretary
of state, (and later president) but this was all backed up by the fact that they were voted on. This
was also because the Federalist party was basically dead at this point and the Republicans who
happened to have a good number of Virginians were the strongest(and basically only) party at
the time.
Monroe’s Goodwill Tour pg221 James Monroe became president when he was a 61 year old
with service as a Revolutionary soldier, diplomat, and cabinet officer under his belt, with literally
no competition because as said before, the Federalist party was gone, the War was over, and
the US was entering a period with little to no challenges. James Monroe wanted an American
government that was not divided with constant factional disputes, and he attempted to do so
with his selection of cabinet, choosing Federalist John Quincy Adams for Secretary of State. He
chose John C Calhoun to be secretary of war after Henry Clay the Speaker of the House
declined the offer. James Monroe was one of the first since 1800 to actually include not only
yes-men in his cabinet, and was reelected in 1820 since again, the Federalist party didn’t exist
anymore.
Monroe Doctrine(I put this here) The Monroe doctrine basically said “screw you” to any
European states attempting to stretch their influence in the West, allowing for the US to have
free reign to do whatever they wanted in the continent. The reason this was issued was literally
so that the US could feel more independent, they still hated the idea that they were the UK’s kid.
Isnt the monroe doctrine a little lower like page 225



[PAGE 67]

All you need to know for it should be what it is i think becuase that what it asked me
The Seminole War pg 221 (the Seminoles are badass trust) Andrew Jackson, commander of the
American troops in the Florida area was sent to capture territory for the Americas, which was
controlled by the Seminole tribe at the time. Andrew Jackson being the violent asshole he is,
immediately took to invading the Seminoles, starting the Seminole War. Andrew Jackson started
off his invasion of the Seminoles by seizing 2 Spanish forts and hanging 2 British subjects .
Yeah. Real smart dipshit. John Quincy Adams was now forced to deal with the fact that this
irrational shithole was doing absolute lunacy in the South, and instead of condemning the
general, he urged the government to take responsibility, and reassured that the Spanish had all
the rights to defend themselves. Now what does this REALLY mean? Quincy Adams saying this
REALLY means that BECAUSE the Spanish had the right to defend themselves against Andrew
it was the Spanish’s fault for not simply repelling Jackson’s forces, so basically saying “skill
issue”. This gave Jackson the confidence he could take the rest of Florida by force, and was
very tempted to do so, as was Quincy Adams.
Adams - Onis Treaty pg 222 Uh so apparently this guy named Adams Onis just came out of
NOWHERE, the textbook literally has never told us about him ONCE, so yeah. We can assume
Onis was the person responsible for the forts in the Florida area. Onis knew that the Americans
were going to easily take the Florida territory, and they ceded all of the Spanish land in Florida
to the US, and in exchange the US gave up its claims to Texas.
Boom and Bust pg 222 All of a sudden, there was a massive demand for American agricultural
goods (probably because the Atlantic was now war-free and the US could easily look to trade
with their European customers). Due to this demand for American land for farming, land prices
went through the roof. In order to accommodate this, the Bank of the US started going crazy on
the loans, and when too many loans are given out, not all of them are paid back in time. This
was the bust part.
Tallmadge Amendment pg 222 Woo! New state! Yeah! Missouri! Missouri immediately got going
with…slavery. Despite the fact that the US really wanted slavery gone, Missouri wanted slavery
for…reasons. James Tallmadge Jr, a Rep of New York proposed an Amendment that would
prohibit new slaves into the Missouri area, which would spark a ton of anger from the Missouri
free Whites. This is important because it shows just how divided the US was on the topic of
slavery. The US always introduced free and slave states in pairs, with 11 free and slave states
to balance each other out. Missouri being introduced on its own as a free state upset the
balance and made the South really mad. (this won’t have devastating consequences surely)
Missouri Compromise pg 222 Along with Missouri, Maine was also to be a new free state. Henry
Clay told the house that if they had both Maine and Missouri be free states, they would make
sure to block one of the states from statehood until one was made a slave state, which made
the Senate agree to having Missouri as a slave state, and Maine a free state.
Dartmouth College v Woodward pg 223 This case was a case in which Republicans who had
recently gained control of the New Hampshire state government tried to make Dartmouth



[PAGE 68]

College a state university from a private college. Daniel Webster, a Dartmouth graduate, argued
that the college remain private, arguing that the charter the college was given so long ago by
King George III was a formal contract, and according to legend, brought some of the justices to
tears by saying “It is, sir…a small college. And yet there are those who love it.” Don’t really see
how that’s super emotional for the justices that never went to college but sure. The court ruled
that Dartmouth stayed a private college. But MORE IMPORTANTLY, the case placed restrictions
on the ability of the state government to control private corporations.
Confirming Implied Powers 224 In McCulloch vs Marshall in 1819, Marshall confirmed some
“implied powers”. This court case was really over the fact that a lot of people did not like the
state bank, and it brought along 2 questions, 1. Could congress actually create a bank 2. If a
bank was created by congress, could it be banned or taxed by the state? To answer these
questions, the court confirmed that yes, congress could create a bank, and that no, banks would
not be able to be taxed by the state, because, as Daniel Webster, a bank attorney argues, the
state could “tax it(the bank) to death”.
Establishing Federal Primacy 224 the John Marshall-led court established the federal
government OVER the state government in financial affairs and the economy. Some actions that
were taken were protecting corporations, private economic institutions from local(state)
government intervention. THIS HERE is an example of the nationalism that was presented and
practiced at the time. Keep in mind the nationalism that you should be thinking about when
talking about this time period is the change between politicians wanting people to think about
the country rather than their state .
Worcester v Georgia 224 At this time if you remember, there is a BIG BIG push by the US to
make way into Indigenous territory and take all their land because more land = more money.
Worcester vs Georgia was a case in which the state of Georgia wanted easier access to the
Cherokee lands in order to, well, kick them out and build farms over the land that they just stole.
The court ruled in favor of the Cherokee people and decided that in order for any attempts to be
made into Cherokee land, it would have to be approved by the government, even going as far
as to recognize the Cherokee and all Indigenous groups as individual groups.
Then Andrew Jackson comes along, uno-reverses everything and now the Cherokee take a
really long deadly hike on a trail.
Revolution in Latin America 225 Latin American people were revolting against their British and
Spanish rulers. Nothing else is said. That’s it. Yep. Thanks textbook.
The Monroe Doctrine 225 A Policy (Made by John Quincy Adams btw) that declared that the
American Continents (Both North and South) were not to be colonized by any European
powers . The US would consider any attempt to colonize the Americas as a threat against the
US.
ALSO US will not interfere with European Affairs



[PAGE 69]

American Fears 225 This policy came out of the Fear that Spain’s European Allies would assist
Spain in an attempt to Recolonize the Americas. Americans also feared that Britain would
conquer Cuba (WHAT???????), and wanted Spain to keep control of Cuba until it fell to the
Americans (They thought it was gonna happen fr). The Monroe Doctrine was an important
expression of a growing American Nationalism.
New Political Divisions 226 In 1816, there were no more Federalist candidates, officially ending
the Federalist party once and for all (this is like the fourth time the textbook has said this
bullshit). The Republican party, one that had once strongly opposed centralization and economic
growth now did nothing but support those very ideals.
End of the Caucus System 226 AYO??? The Caucus System was a system used by parties to
choose their presidential candidates. The system would have only congress members part of
that specify party vote on who their candidate would be. So we can just kind of infer from the
term that the Caucus System met its demise in the election of 1824, in which “King Caucus” was
overthrown
Election of 1824 226 Andrew Jackson, a nobody who only had a brief stint in congress and had
basically nothing but military experience somehow won the presidential election with 99 total
electoral votes, with John Quincy Adams trailing with 84 votes. The 12th Amendment demanded
that the House of Representatives would choose amongst the 3 candidates with the highest # of
electoral votes. The House of Reps chose Adams, which made Jackson supporters really really
angry.
Tariff of Abominations 227 name goes hard - President Quincy Adams created a bunch of tariffs
on imported goods. Originally, this was because the British were flooding the market with cheap
textiles, but Adams had to tax a bunch of other stuff to gain support in middle and western
states. However by doing this, Adams basically said “screw you” to people in New England, who
now had a bill that helped prevent competition (yay) but now also made other actually important
stuff they were importing even more expensive (boo). People in the south really really really
hated this bill, giving it the name “Tariff of Abominations)
Jackson Triumphant 227 The new landscape of American politics had started to take place,
those who supported John Quincy Adams were considered National Republicans, while the
supporters of Jackson were considered the Democratic Republicans. Most of Adam’s followers
were all the few Federalists that remained, while most of Jackson’s followers were lower class
working folk. Both sides vehemently despised each other, with Adams side calling Jackson a
murderer and his wife a hoe (the former being completely correct). Jackson won the popular
vote and the electoral vote, making him the president. Wahoo.
READING QUIZ#7 INFO STARTS HERE



[PAGE 70]

Jackson’s Inauguration 230 Jackson, being the extremely popular president he was, even
dubbed “the people’s president”. On his auguration, Jackson held an open reception at the
white house, in which a mob basically destroyed the place.
Broadening the Franchise 231 Before Jackson, in most states only TAX-PAYING and
PROPERTY OWNING free white males could vote, but Jackson made sure that it was ANY free
adult white male that could vote.
The Dorr Rebellion 231 Rhode Island was still pretty behind however. Only around half of the
free adult white male population was able to vote, mainly due to the state government’s refusal
to follow the new trend. In 1840, Thomas W Dorr and a group of his followers formed a
“People’s Party” drafted a new constitution, which was overwhelmingly approved by the people,
but the state legislature still didn’t agree to the new constitution, but instead of just saying
“nuh-uh” to the People’s Party, legislature made a new constitution and had the people vote on
that or the constitution that Dorr presented, which was narrowly defeated by Dorr’s constitution.
So all is good right? WRONG! (sulfuric acid!) Now there are two governments in Rhode Island,
both claiming themselves the legitimate one. This results in Dorr and his followers eventually
trying to take control of the Rhode Island state arsenal, which fails. Although the siege didn’t
work, what it did do was pressure the Rhode Island government into making a new constitution
that better suited the people.
READING QUIZ#6 INFO ENDS HERE
Democratic Reforms 232 Despite the fact that only free white male adults could vote, it didn’t
change the fact that there were some reforms being made in the voting field. For one, voter %
rose a ton, with formerly only 27% of free white male adults voting up to 58%. Secondly, voting
actually became important, with a lot of states adopting systems where the popular vote
mattered more than whatever state legislature deemed necessary.
The Second Party System 233 Prior to the 1820s, most people would agree that a party system
was evil and unfounded in the US political system, but over time many people came to agree it
was a very necessary part and should be welcomed in elections and so forth. This was also
sponsored by the current president Andrew Jackson, and 2 parties formed, the anti-Jacksons,
who were called Whigs, and Jackson’s supporters, the Democrats, which to this day is the
oldest standing political party.
President of the Common Man 234 ( N ot a term but i think it’s important to mention this ) Andrew
Jackson was very much the people’s president (if you are a free white male), arguing that all
people regardless of social class or region should be given the same equal rights, benefits, and
opportunities.
Right… Equal…



[PAGE 71]

The Spoils System 234 Jackson had a lot of people he did not like and wanted to take power
from, first on the chopping block being African Americans (with what little power they had),
which he did by stating that African Americans were dangerous and should be kept subjugated
to protect the free white male. Jackson then looked to get rid of entrenched (long standing)
office holders, who he argued were a bunch of old geezers and that anybody could become an
office holder, and that these positions belonged to everyday people. This resulted in over a fifth
of all office holders losing their positions, and was called the Spoils System.
Limited Nature of Democratic Reform 235 The Spoils system did a good job at limiting power in
certain positions, but it failed in what it ultimately tried to do, try to transfer this power over to the
people. Power that was once in the hands of officeholders and other politicians was instead
given to the political allies and associates of Jackson and his party members.
Nah dawg im feeling it ight big guy i see u
Calhoun’s Theory of Nullification 236 Calhoun’s Theory of Nullification was presented as a
possible solution to the issue of state succession. Inspired by the Virginia and Kentucky
resolutions, along with the 10th Amendment, John C. Calhoun, a 46 year old former
protectionist, argued that because the Federal government was created by the states, it was up
to the states to decide whether certain ones could determine whether or not certain policies
were constitutional or not. How this was done was by allowing states to veto certain Federal
laws and policies specifically for that state. This idea caught fire in South Carolina, but didn’t
help much with John’s popularity since Calhoun had a bigtime rival in Martin Van buren
Martin Van Buren’s Growing Influence 236 Former governor(resigned by choice) of New York,
Martin Van Buren was a Secretary of State instated by Andrew Jackson(meaning that by
default, Van Buren is popular by association). Van Buren had a MASSIVE influence on Andrew
Jackson, kind of acting like a puppet master, whispering into Jackson’s ear constantly (Van
Buren would contribute to making Jackson not like Calhoun, hence Calhoun’s unpopularity). So
how exactly did this Van Buren guy manage to get to such a spot? (the textbook makes a big
deal about it for some reason, so I think I might as well include it) BASICALLY there was this
MARRIED women named Peggy O’ Neale which Andrew Jackson and John H Eaton had affairs
with while they were senators in Tennessee. Word got out and now everybody was aware of the
affair. Peggy’s husband died in 1828, and she married John Eaton. Jackson tried to have John
H Eaton become secretary of state, which would also mean that Peggy would become a cabinet
wife, which nobody was down with for obvious reasons. The only one that really was was Van
Buren, so basically Van Buren dickrode his way into his powerful position.
State’s Rights versus National Power 237 This was an argument or debate over the power of
States to nullify laws. The book doesn’t really say much about the topic, but goes over debates
between Robert Y Hayne, who preferred State’s rights and Daniel Webster, who preferred the
power of the Federal Government.



[PAGE 72]

It’s later mentioned that Jackson favored the power of the federal government.
This whole point is kinda bad. But it’s here.
Nullification Crisis ( Another thing I think is good to mention)
As a result of the tariff of abominations (see above) and even more tariffs, the South Carolina
Legislature voted to nullify the tariffs and to forbid their collection in the state. Jackson thought
this was treason and tried to intimidate people with the army and warships. Jackson also tried to
force a bill that would allow for the military to enforce Congress’ laws. (this meant he was gonna
jump South Carolina fr)
Compromise 238 South Carolina was alone in its stand against these tariffs, and even then,
they were divided on if they wanted to commit to this “treason”. However Henry Clay would
devise a compromise to help avert this crisis. He suggested that tariffs would be lowered slowly
until 1842, where the tariffs would be the same level as those before the “tariff of abominations”.
This suggestion and Jackson’s forced bill (see above) went through on the same day.
Overall this whole crisis set a precedent that no single state could really challenge the Federal
Government
Changing Attitudes Toward the Indians 238 (You’d think the textbook would TRY to be respectful
but like…)
In the 18th Century(1700s), many people had considered Native people “noble savages”, as
they were intelligent enough to have a civilization. However by the 19th Century (1800s), Many
Americans shifted to a more hostile view of their Native neighbors. People were starting to drop
the “noble” part and just refer to Natives as “Savages”. White Americans really didn’t want to live
near these “Savage Tribes” (wow…) This led to beliefs of removal so that Americans could
settle on their valuable land.
Sauk and Fox Indians Defeated 239 (welp.) In the Northwest, if you remember, there is a BIG
BIG conflict over land between White US settlers and Indigenous Peoples. In this scenario, we
are talking about the Illinois area, with the Sauk and Fox Indigenous groups. Angry over the fact
that a rival Indigenous tribe had signed an agreement with the US seceding their land, Black
Hawk, a warrior, led an expedition into UNOCCUPIED AND VACANT territory, and basically
settled down there in protest. NOTHING WRONG? Right? Well, the White settlers took this as
an “invasion”, and would “defend their land” by sending in federal troops along with a militia in
order to “repel the invaders”. In this “defense” slaughtered basically anybody they could, even
going as far as to pursue the retreating Indigenous force across the Mississippi just to kill them.
A couple were captured and sent to Andrew Jackson in order to. Uh. examine?? (also Abraham
Lincoln was a captain leading the white militia but never actually partook in a battle)
Agrarian Tribes of the South 239 More troubling to the government in the 1830s were the tribes
remaining in the South. In western Georgia, Alabama, Mississippi, and Florida, what were
known as the “Five Civilized Tribes” resided. The five tribes, Cherokee, Creek, Seminole,



[PAGE 73]

Chickasaw, and Choctaw, were all established agricultural societies with successful economies.
The Cherokees in Georgia had formed a particularly stable and sophisticated culture, with their
own written language and a formal CONSTITUTION that created an independent Cherokee
Nation. They were more closely tied to their lands than many of the nomadic tribes to the north.
Removal Act 239 Andrew Jackson does not like the native people being annoying by living on
clearly American Land, so he decides to try and take their land through treaties. However this is
way too slow to satisfy the people who wanted to expand, so Jackson says “we ball” and passes
the Removal Act in 1830. This Act gave States the right to finance negotiations with tribes.
Many tribes were offered paltry sums of money for their land. Many tribes were too weak to be
able to fight off the Americans, so they left. Others (Cherokee) tried to stop white encroachment
through the Supreme Court, but Jackson just didn’t enforce the decision when it came out in
favor of the Native people.
Cherokee Resistance 240 Jackson Paid off a small group of Cherokee people for the Tribe’s
land, but the rest of the 17,000 Cherokee people thought the treaty was illegitimate and refused
to move. This led to Jackson sending 7000 people to drive them off by force…
Cherokee Removal 240 … And The Cherokee were forced into the Smoky Mountains or forced
to walk to Oklahoma in the Winter of 1838. This Trail of Tears was horrifying, as many died of
cold or hunger as they were forced onto the reservation.
Indian Removal 240 Thousands died before they reached Oklahoma. The Survivors never
forgot this terrible journey they were forced to undertake, and Jackson justified his actions by
saying that the Natives were now protected (FROM WHAT????).
The Cherokee were not alone on this trail, as all of the “5 Civilized Tribes” were forced to
relocate to Oklahoma - not a very good piece of land also.
The government saw the land the Natives were forced onto as unfit for habitation, and thus
there wouldn’t be white people seeking to settle there. (man this whole thing makes me
depressed)
The Seminole War (again) 241 The Seminoles in Florida were the only tribe to resist the
pressures to relocate, and even their success was limited. Like other tribes, the Seminoles had
agreed, under pressure, to a settlement by which they ceded their lands to the government and
agreed to move to a reservation within three years. (The 1832-1833 treaties of Payne’s
Landing). Most did move, but a substantial minority, under the leadership of Osceola, refused to
leave and staged an uprising. A group of runaway black slaves joined the Seminoles in their
struggle. This war went on for years, Jackson’s troops did little to suppress the uprising due to
the guerrilla warfare tactics the Seminoles and their African American associates employed.
Even after Osceola had been captured while under a flag of truce and died in prison, and even
after white troops had engaged in a systematic campaign of extermination against the resisting
Indigenous and their black allies, followers of Osceola remained in Florida. Finally, in 1842, the
government abandoned the war. By then, most of the Seminoles had been either killed or forced



[PAGE 74]

out west. But the relocation of the Seminoles,unlike other tribes, was never complete.
Something to note: the Seminole community in Florida has made a big rebound, and it is clear
that despite only a small number of Seminole survivors in the Florida area, they managed to
thrive in the area despite the wet marshes and harsh heat.
Alternatives to Removal 241 There were several ideas floatin
g around about what could be done that did not involve forcing people off their land. There were
many examples of White people and Native Tribes coexisting without murder and pillaging, such
as in New Mexico and California. However, financial gain and a want for land made coexisting
an unfavorable option for many Americans.
Jackson’s opposition to Concentrated Power 242
Jackson was willing to use federal power against States and against Native people, but was
very against concentrating economic power in the Federal Government and the “aristocratic
institutions” around it (the national bank) .
One example of Jackson’s view on Federal Power came when he vetoed a measure to pay for a
road in Kentucky. Jackson argued that this would solely benefit one state, because the road was
in Kentucky and not part of “interstate commerce”. He also saw paying for the road in general as
extravagant and unnecessary.
Nicholas Biddle 242 wtf is this name
Nicholas Biddle was the president of the Bank of the United States from 1823 on, and he was
very good at his job of making sure the bank would prosper and also be very stable. Good job
Biddle!
Unfortunately for Biddle, Andrew Jackson hated the national bank and wanted it destroyed at all
costs (why? idk.)
As Jackson is trying his best to destroy the Bank, Biddle is trying to grant factors to those who
he thought would help preserve the bank, like Daniel Webster. Webster, who was named the
director of the Boston Branch, would help get other important people like Henry Clay on board
with keeping the bank not destroyed.
Hard and Soft Money 242 A Debate between two groups who were both against the National
Bank
Soft Money people wanted more currency in circulation and believed that bank notes
unsupported by bullion (gold/silver) would circulate more currency for State Banks and their
Allies. They often believed in the rapid growth of the economy
Hard Money people believed that money was only valuable because it was backed by gold and
silver. They didn’t like the issuing of Bank Notes and believed in older ideas of public virtue
(WHY DOES THAT MATTER TEXTBOOK????)



[PAGE 75]

Jackson’s Veto 242 Clay, Webster, and other advisers persuaded Biddle to apply to Congress in
1832 for a bill to renew the Bank’s charter. That was four years ahead of the date the original
charter was scheduled to expire. Forcing a vote now would allow the Bank to become a major
issue in the 1832 national elections. Congress passed the recharter bill; Jackson, predictably,
vetoed it’ and the Bank’s supporters in Congress failed to override the veto. Just as Clay had
hoped, the 1832 campaign now centered on the future of the Bank.
Removal of Government Deposits 243 Determined to destroy the “monster” Bank, Jackson tried
to weaken it. He removed the government’s deposits from the Bank. His secretary of treasury
believed that such an action would destabilize the financial system and refused to do so, so
Jackson fired him. He then hired a new one, but this new secretary didn’t want to give the order
either, so Jackson again fired him. For his third secretary, Jackson hired Attorney General Roger
B. Taney, his close friend and loyal ally. Taney began placing the government’s deposits not in
the Bank of the United States, but in a number of state banks.
Jackson Victorious 243 Jackson had won a considerable political victory when he got rid of the
federal bank. This led to a fragmented and unstable banking system that would continue for a
century.
IMPORTANT SENATE WAS PISSED AND JACKSON GOT CENSURED which means
senate formally disagreed with him.
Charles River Bridge V Warren Bridge 244 This case involved a dispute between two
Massachusetts companies over the right to build a bridge across the Charles River between
Boston and Cambridge. One company had a long-standing charter from the state to operate a
toll bridge and claimed that this charter guaranteed it a monopoly of the bridge traffic. Another
company had applied to the legislature for authorization to construct a second, competing
bridge that would–since it would be toll free–greatly reduce the value of the first company’s
charter. In the end, Taney(idk his first name), speaking for the Democratic majority, allowed the
second bridge to be built. His reasoning was that states had the right to amend or abrogate a
contract if it is necessary to advance the well-being of the community. This decision reflected
one of the cornerstones of the Jacksonian ideal: that the key to democracy was an expansion of
economic opportunity, which would not occur if older corporations could maintain monopolies
and choke off competition from new companies.
SUMMARY: Charles River Bridge V Warren Bridge - Dispute over two Massachusetts
companies over the right to build a bridge across the Charles River between Boston and
Cambridge. Charles River Bridge Company claimed a monopoly based on its charter while
Warren Bridge Company wanted to build a free bridge. Chief Justice Taney ruled in favor of
Warren Bridge arguing that states could change contracts to benefit the public. It reflects
Jacksonian ideals of promoting economic opportunity and opposing monopolies.
Birth of the Whig Party 244 Jackson’s forceful, even tyrannical tactics in crushing the nullification
movement and then the Bank of the United States helped galvanize a growing opposition
coalition that by the mid-1830s was ready to assert itself in national politics. Denouncing the



[PAGE 76]

president as “King Andrew I,” they began to refer to themselves as Whigs, after the party in
England that had traditionally worked to limit the power of the king.
Democrats’ Emphasis on Opportunity 245 Democrats in the 1830s envisioned a future of
steadily expanding economic and political opportunities for white males(hmm i wonder why…).
They believed that the role of government should be limited, but it should include efforts to
remove obstacles to opportunity and to avoid creating new ones. This meant defending the
Union, which Jacksonians believed was essential to the dynamic economic growth they favored.
It also meant attacking centers of corrupt privilege, as Jackson himself said in his farewell
address, the society of America should be one in which “the planter, the farmer, the mechanic,
and the laborer, all know that their success depends on their own industry and economy.”
Summary: In the 1830s, democrats believed that white men should have growing economic and
political opportunities. They wanted a limited government that focused on removing obstacles to
success instead of creating obstacles. They supported preserving the union for economic
growth and opposite wealthy elite (corrupt privilege). In his farewell address, Jackson said
America should be a place where farmers and workers succeed through hard work
Whigs’ Call for Economic Union 245 The political philosophy that became known as Whiggery
was very different. It favored expanding the power of the federal government, encouraging
industrial and commercial development, and knitting the country together into a consolidated
economic system. Whigs embraced material progress, but unlike the Democrats, they were
cautious about westward expansion., fearing that it would create instability. Their vision of
America was of a nation embracing the industrial future and rising to world greatness as a
commercial and manufacturing power.
Whigs - different view. They wanted a strong fed gov, wanting industry, commerce and a
connected national economy. They supported economic progress but were cautious about
westward expansion because it would cause problems. Their goal - America = powerful,
industrial and commercial nation.
Anti-Masons 245 Both the Whig and Democratic politicians made frequent adjustments in their
public postures to attract the largest possible number of voters. For example, the Whigs in New
York worked to develop a popular following by making a connection to a movement known as
Anti-Masonry. The Anti-Masonic movement emerged in the 1820s in response to widespread
resentment against the secret, exclusive, and thus undemocratic Society of Freemasons. These
resentments grew when a former Mason, WIlliam Morgan, mysteriously disappeared(assumed
to be murdered) from his home in New York shortly before he was going to publish a book on
the secrets of Freemasonry.
Both the Whigs and Democrats often changed their positions to gain more voters. In New York,
the Whigs gained support by aligning with Anti-Masonic movement which began in the 1820s.
This movement opposed the secretive and exclusive Freemasons, who were seen as
undemocratic—especially after a former Mason, William Morgan, disappeared before revealing
their secrets in a book.
Cultural Issues 245 Religious and Ethnic Differences factored heavily into people’s party
preferences. Immigrants like Irish and German Catholics supported Democrats and their



[PAGE 77]

aversion to commercial development and entrepreneurial progress. They also favored the
Democrats’ family/community focused values.
Protestants favored the Whigs because of their constant development and improvement.
The Whigs would end up being more successful at defining its values and therefore attracting a
following. However the Whigs did not really have a leader and instead had 3 main guys that
people considered a group of leaders, consisting of Henry Clay, Daniel Webster, and John
Calhoun . Sound familiar? These guys have popped up here and there in the past couple of
terms.
Clay’s American System 245 Clay won support from many of those who favored his program for
internal improvements and economic development, what he called the “American System”. But
his image as a devious operator and his identification with the West proved to be serious
liabilities. He ran for president three times and never won(yikes).
Election of 1836 pg 246 The problems that emerged from this divided leadership became
particularly clear in 1836. The Democrats were united behind Jackson’s pick, Martin Van Buren,
but the Whigs couldn’t agree on a candidate. Instead, they sent three in hopes of gaining a
majority for their party. However, this plan failed, as Van Buren won with 170 electoral votes to
124 for all his opponents combined.
Distribution Act pg 246 Congress and the administration now faced the question of what to do
with the surplus Treasury. Reducing the tariff was not an option, as no one wanted to go through
that again. Instead, support grew for returning the federal surplus to the states. In 1836,
Congress passed a “distribution” act requiring the federal government to pay its surplus funds to
the states each year in four quarterly installments as interest-free, unsecured loans.
Panic of 1837 247 WAS THAT THE PANIC OF 37?????
In 1836, before 8th president Martin Van Buren came into office, Andrew Jackson issued an
order that would require all payment for public lands would only be paid in gold/silver or
currency backed by gold/silver. (NO WAY THIS IS LIKE THE SILVER DRAIN FROM AP
WORLD HISTORY)
This created an economic panic, where many banks and businesses failed, Unemployment
grew massively, and riots broke out in cities over the price of goods like Bread.
The Prices of things dropped massively, and many public works projects like Bridges failed.
Many States couldn’t pay interest on their bonds, and it caused the worst Depression in
American History at this point . What made this worse was the fact Europe was also having
some economic problems, so many European countries pulled their American Investments out.
This whole cluster of problems happened during Van Buren’s Democratic administration, and
therefore everyone blamed the Democrats. Van Buren did little to fix things, as he opposed
government intervention in the economies. The things Van Buren did do were very



[PAGE 78]

inconsequential, such as taking money to pay government debts and establishing a 10 hour
workday on all federal projects.
Van Buren would also end up creating a new financial system for the US, one that would be a bit
controversial…
Independent Treasury pg 247 Van Buren’s plan, called the “independent treasury” or
“subtreasury” system, was the most important and controversial of all of Van Buren’s legislative
achievements. It placed government funds in an independent treasury in Washington and in sub
treasuries in other cities. No private banks would have the government’s money or name to use
as a basis for speculation; the banks and the government would be “divorced’. This plan failed
to pass in the House, but in the last year of his presidency, it was finally passed by Congress.
New Techniques of Political Campaigning 248 The 1840 campaign was the first in which the
new “penny press” carried news of candidates to a large audience of workers. It also showed
how the concept of party competition and the subordination of ideology to immediate political
needs had been fully established in the US. The Whigs represented the affluent elements of the
population, and favored policies that aided businesses. Yet they presented themselves in 1840
as the party of the common people, and so did the democrats. Both parties used the same
techniques of mass voter appeal, and, in the end, the Whigs won. The 1840 campaign was the
first to use the "penny press" to reach many working-class voters. It showed that party
competition often mattered more than ideology. Both Whigs and Democrats claimed to
represent the common people, even though the Whigs supported the wealthy and business
interests. Using techniques such as slogans, songs, rallies and penny press, they won!
(Read the section I’m too lazy to explain how the Whigs won) hi too lazy to explain how the
Whigs won im ryan.
Whigs Break with Tyler pg 249 Basically, Tyler was now the president due to Henry Harrison
dying of pneumonia. John Tyler was a former democrat who had left the party, but his political
views still sided with that of the Democrats. Tyler became part of the Whigs, but his refusal to do
pretty much anything the party wanted him to do, he was read out, and his cabinet all resigned.
Former democrats took their places, led by a man named John Calhoun. (Jesus Christ the
Johns are taking over). A new political alignment emerged from this. Tyler and a small group of
conservative Whips were preparing to rejoin the democratic party.
William Henry Harrison dies of pneumonia. John Tyler becomes president but refuses to follow
Whig policies and aligns more with the democrats. The party expels him and his cabinet
resigns. John Calhoun and some former democrats replace those cabinet members. Leads to a
new political alignment - Tyler and conservative Whigs moving back towards the democratic
party.
And that’s it for the week! Have fun…
SAQ TIME BABY YAHOO
There is no SAQ this year, DO NOT BE TRICKED



[PAGE 79]

That should be it right?? Shirley
Wahoo! Gj guys
Yup
Bro do you know how to spell surely?? Yes, shirley
75 pages yippee!!! Wahoo!
Well. we have to get to like page 290.
I spent the ta period playing star rail until now me when
Ryan just get the vocab listed for now dont actually do any unless u wanna
bonesaw
The Penny Press (not a term but seems important) 250 There was a shift in the meta for
newspapers that started when the New York Sun was published on September 3, 1833. This
was meta changing due to the fact that the newspaper covered very trivial local news (crime,
sex?(textbook moment) and violence). It also cost a penny. Neat!
This would be the start of a new America where newspapers became very cheap, and also very
popular for people to get their information from. This would affect a lot of American Society, such
as the Economy and even Politics, as people are more informed and understanding about the
world around them. Except not that last one, most of the people reading these things are white
men and they like reading about how black people and women are worse than epic white men.
Tldr papers become cheap people more informed but people still racist and sexist
The Caroline affair 250 In 1837, some parts of Canada rebelled against the British, and some of
the rebels hired the AMERICAN ship Caroline to ship supplies for the rebels. The British then
seize the Caroline and burn the ship, where one American ends up dying in the whole scuffle.
The british refused to compensate for the American Ship and apologize for the death of the
American. Americans then arrested and tried some Canadian guy in court, which pissed off
britain. The Secretary of State was powerless to pardon the guy because of some state laws or
whatever, so the Jury had to acquit the guy or else… War! Wow that was close.
Aroostook war 250 At the same time, groups of Canadians and Americans moved into Maine.
However the local Aroostook people were not very happy with their land being taken (unheard
of). The fights between the Aroostook and Canadians/Americans was referred to as the
Aroostook war.
Webster-Ashburton Treaty 251 A Treaty that negotiated the border of Maine and Canada. The
New border gave the US a lot of disputed territory and protected a lot of trade routes. This
helped defuse Tensions between the Americans and Canadians.



[PAGE 80]

Treaty of Wang Hya 251 - After the opium wars, Britain very nicely asked China to open up to
trade by force. AMerica wanted to get in on this very nicely obtained free trade, and the Treaty
of Wang Hya gave Americans the same rights as the British when trading in China. It also
allowed for Americans who commit crimes in China to be tried by American Courts. (hmmmmm)
Jackson’s Legacy 252 President Andrew Jackson left a massive impact on America that can
still kinda be felt today. Through his tenure, American land expanded and the Party System
became institutionalized by the Government. It would help to serve as another system of checks
and balances for the government. Jackson also made great efforts to both weaken the
aristocracy and Federal government’s economic power, such as when he destroyed the National
Bank. Jackson also confronted one of the greatest challenges to the US of the time in the
Nullification Crisis.
Jackson also pissed off a lot of people, and the Whig party gained power through challenging
and criticizing Jackson.
Regional Divergences 255 As we know already, the Northern and Southern states are pretty
different. However, around the 1800s, these differences started to really show and become
important. The Northern states developed industrial economies dominated by cities and
industry. In the South, states focused on resources and agriculture in cash crops. Crops like
cotton became important to the economies, as Northern Textile factories needed cotton to well,
make textiles. The South remained much less developed economically, and the southern states
became more and more reliant on Slavery to keep up with production to support the North.
Reasons for Population increase 255 The American Population was only 4 Million in 1790. By
1830, This population was 13 million, up to 17 million in 1840.
But WHY, RYAN????
Well, during this time, health science really really really improved by a lot. People were affected
by diseases like malaria less and epidemics were less common. In addition, America had a very
high birth rate of like 6.14 kids per family. Wow! In addition, many people immigrated to the
Americas from Europe. Most Immigrants went into the North, where they lived in cities.
Rapid Urbanization pg 256 As mentioned above, many immigrants moved into cities. This,
along with the growing industries in the North led to the rapid growth of Cities. The booming
agricultural economies also led to urban growth as cities benefited from locations near major
rivers. In addition, the population overall was just growing.
Surging Immigration pg 259 Holy Redundancy batman! Yeah, Between 1840 and 50, 1.5 Million
Europeans moved to America. And again, most moved to the North, and only like 500,000
immigrants lived in Slave states in 1860. Many of of these immigrants were..



[PAGE 81]

German and Irish Immigrants 259 German and Irish! While people did come from England,
France, Italy, Scandinvaia, Poland, and Holland, Most of the Immigrants came from Ireland and
Germany. People came from Germany due to the industrial revolution and it’s consequences…
(uh.) While people came from Ireland due to the fact that Ireland was ruled by Britain, who was
not a very fair and just leader to the Irish people. In addition, the devastating Potato Famine led
many to leave Ireland in search of a better life.
Many German Immigrants became merchants or farmers, while many Irish became unskilled
laborers. Why the difference? Germans often came to America with money and some skills,
while many Irish came to America with literally nothing. Also, many Germans immigrated as
families, while many Irish immigrants were single women
SIDE NOTE: NATIVISM
Not mentioned, but not everyone was happy with Immigrants. Some people were happy
because immigrants served as a cheap source of labor, people to sell land to, and people to sell
goods to. Immigrants in some states like Wisconsin could become voters after like a year and a
declaration of seeking citizenship. However some people were not as accepting, creating the
idea of “nativism” Nativism is basically xenophobia but it sounds nicer. Many Nativists argued
that immigrants were inherently inferior to natural-born Americans. This is despite the fact many
of these people are the children of immigrants but oh well. So now the list of people
discriminated against is African Americans, Women, Indigenous people, AND Immigrants.
But Why were these people xenophobic? Well, Immigrants were often seen as lazy due to living
in slums (they were poor smh), and also because they were “taking jobs” (willing to work for less
because they are poor and need work to live). Some people feared that Irish people would like,
turn the US into CatholicLand or something idk i skimmed this part. Also, People were afraid of
radical political ideas from Immigrants
Native American Party 262 Out of Xenophobia and Racism alone, a new secret society was
created. The Native American Association, mostly composed of white Northeasterners, was the
first created in 1837. Later in 1850, a bunch of these organizations created the megazord, I
mean the Supreme Order of the Star Spangled Banner.(this sounds racist already if i heard this
with no context) This was a group that endorsed stuff like making it harder to become a citizen
and preventing catholic or Immigrant people from holding office. The order was very serious
about being a secret society, so they used the passphrase “I know nothing” to identify each
other
The Know-Nothings pg 262 Well apparently these guys suck at keeping secrets, because
people refer to these guys as the “Know Nothings”. Gradually, the Know-Nothing racist gang
tries to become a new political organization called the American Party. They do really well in the
East in places like Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, and New York, but not really too well in the
West because of the large amounts of immigrants there (HMMMMMM). After 1854, the group
kinda fizzles out and dies.



[PAGE 82]

READING QUIZ#8 INFO STARTS HERE
Steamboats 263 Someone else can do this one. I will leave this image here to sum it up. This
image perfectly describes the topic.
I don't think i used the template right.
Economic Advantages of canals 264 Canals are better because they create jobs for the
government, as people need to, well, make the canal. In addition, Canals often ended up paying
for themselves once they were built, as the convenience and time saved traveling on them was
worth the toll money.
The Erie Canal 264 The Biggest Infrastructure Project in the US so far, the Erie Canal stretched
from Lake Erie to places like New York, Washington DC, and even The Ohio River. It was an
immediate profit, and the entire thing was paid for by itself in 7 years. The Canal gave New York
City Access to places like Chicago and the west. It also made immigration westward even
easier and more profitable, as goods can be shipped faster now.
Technological Basis of the Railroad 265 The English had the Stockton and Darlington Railroad
which was the first public transport railroad. Some American Entrepreneurs especially in the
Northeast, found interest in this and in 1830 the first railroad (Baltimore and Ohio)in the US was
built and a year later another railroad in NY was built. By 1836 thousands of miles of railroad
had been built, but did not have a railroad system. They almost never connected and if they did
they had different widths. (caused a lot of accidents and crashes)



[PAGE 83]

Competition between Railroads and canals 266
Canal companies hated railroads (probably cus they were getting replaced). The Cheasapeak
and Ohio Canal Company blocked progress of the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad(first railroad). If
they werent fighting each other railroads would have been a lot more efficient and likely would
have benefited both.
Other Railroad Stuff (not a term but idk)266 By 1840 most canals were replaced by railroads
which were more efficient and more versatile with where you could go. From 1840 to 1850 the
amount of railroads tripled from 3000~ to 9000~ miles of railroad in 10 years and became the
best form of transportation in the americas. Most of the railroads were in the northeast
Consolidation 266 (the action or process of making something stronger or more solid.)
Big switch from shorter railroads to much longer railroads(AKA Trunk Lines). There are 4 major
ones just mainly connecting the northeast and northwest. Through the new connection with the
west was the rise of Chicago; Chicago became the rail center for the west. With the new
addition of all these new Trunk Lines was the decrease of use of water lines such as the Erie
Canal(NY) and the Mississippi River. Because of the decrease in dependence on the
Mississippi river, the Northwest started to lose connection with the South.
In 1850 private investors and the government all contributed capital because they all wanted
railroads to assist them. Also in 1850 Senator Stephan A. from Illinois and some other
politicians asked congress to grant Illinois land to spread railroads to the gulf of mexico.
Afterward other states also asked for land grants and by 1860, 30 million acres were granted to
states.
The Telegraph 266 Invented in 1844 by Samuel F.B. Morse, the Telegraph is a major invention
allowing for almost instant communication from one end of the country to the other. In addition,
the low cost of setting up wires made the Telegraph even more convenient. Most of the
Telegraph lines would be managed by the Western Union Telegraph Company.
The Associated Press(AP) 266 In 1846 it was a better news source than any one existing at the
time and had more reliable information and spread of that information. This helped spread Major
metropolitan newspapers in the northeast(NY). Journalism becomes a major part of the US



[PAGE 84]

being a way for information about events globally and nationally but the AP also feeds into
Sectional Discord.
Fueling Sectional Discord 268 UHHHH WHAT?? THE TEXTBOOK LITERALLY SAYS
NOTHING. Except that the North has more Newspapers that are also more accurate than the
South????? That’s it?? ok . Well, there’s a little more to that. It was the rise of journalism that
led to more sectional discord, and since most of the popular newspapers and magazines were
in the North, it reinforced the South’s sense of being put under the North’s control. The south
had no real response to the north’s powerful media, as just two of the North’s newspapers
combined had more circulation than all of the daily newspapers in the south combined.
READING QUIZ#7 INFO ENDS HERE
Impact of the Market Economy 268 By the middle years of the 19th Century(1840s-1860s?) was
the start of the development of a modern capitalist economy. The emergence of this new
economy allowed an increase in wealth across the nation, but this didn't affect every place
equally because some classes and regions benefited more.
Advantages of the Corporation 268 Due to an increase in capitalist merchants and also the
many laws passed to sponsor business and corporations given by states, such as giving
charters to companies for just a small fee. New laws also made investing a lot more risk-free.
This was done through a limited-liability policy in which investors only lost the money they put
into investment, rather than more than they invested in companies.
Inadequate Credit 268 In order to fulfill the financial needs of these up and coming corporations
and businesses, corporations needed credit alongside individual investment since investors
alone couldn’t pay for much. Many state governments had pretty shitty credit systems that didn’t
help much or did not guarantee money that is to be loaned to either be paid back or paid in the
first place, and as a result banks turned to issuing a lot of bank notes. Why is this ‘inadequate’?
Well because when you have banks not issuing actual money and instead issuing a bunch of
‘notes’ that simply secure money that might not actually be available, what ends up happening
is depressions, in which people who expect their money don’t get that money. When people are
given a guarantee or promise of money, they tend to spend a little more than what they normally
do leading up to that promise of money, resulting in economic depression. Such is the case with
the Roaring 20s leading up to the Great Depression. This is why it is important to have a strong
credit and currency system, along with working banks.
早上好中国！现在我有冰淇凌！我很喜欢吃冰淇凌！
Transformation of the Shoe Industry 269 The rise in popularity of factories in the 1820s caused
it to spread to the American Shoe Industry. Shoes were still handmade but many workers were
brought together to do each task of making the shoe separately. They would also produce



[PAGE 85]

identical shoes, with no difference in size or the left or right shoe and these aspects all would
increase efficiency of production
From 1840-1860 the factory system increased rapidly: In 1840 the value of manufactured goods
was $483 million and over doubled by 1850 with over $1 billion. By 1860 it almost doubled again
with close to 2 billion matching the value of agricultural products
The Industrial Northeast 269 ^-^ the northeast had over half(74,000/140,000) of the total
number of manufacturing establishments in the US and the Northeast had much larger
establishments that produced over 2/3 of American goods. From 1.3 million people, 900k of
them worked in northeast factories(especially in New England)
Interchangeable parts 270 Interchangeability of parts revolutionized things like clocks,
locomotives, tools, ect. And later on will help with the inventions of the bicycle, typewriter and
sewing machine.(theres very little on this)
Technological Innovations 270 America at this time was a home to many inventions. In 1830 the
number of patented inventions was 550~ and jumped to 1000~ in 1850 and by 1860 it was
4800~.
In 1839 Charles Goodyear discovered a new way of vulcanizing rubber(making it stronger and
more elastic). Charle’s discovery leads to a major reason for the creation of the American
Rubber Industry.
In 1846 Elias Howe constructed the sewing machine which was improved after by Issac Singer
and the newly invented Howe-Singer Machine would then be used to manufacture clothing.
Transformation of American Agriculture 270 America’s agricultural technology and industry
began to boom as 90% of the American population was basically just farmers. More importantly,
these farmers were moving West into new territories with new land. This increased popularity in
farming led to an increase in farming technology, technique, infrastructure, and transportation
systems, all contributing to a massive increase in food production in the US. In addition, thanks
to the increased transportation, the US people no longer had to rely on food grown from their
own homes, and instead could import food domestically from Western states, and also import
from other countries along with their existing exports.
The Lowell System 271 oh boy what a cool new system! - The Lowell System relied on young
unmarried Women working in factories.
Created both as a response to the poor working conditions of Women in New England and also
because of the increasing amount of Women moving to cities, The Lowell System was a factory
system where Young Women basically got free food and SAFE shelter, and education and
church education and also got paid a lot. The Catch was that women had to work in factories
and basically live there. How neat!



[PAGE 86]

Women Workers 271 Women often found the transition from farm to factory work quite jarring,
and also the new environment led to a lot of loneliness and depression. In addition, many found
the simple and repetitive tasks of the factory really boring and tedious. However, it’s not like
Women had a lot of other options. THey weren’t allowed to do manual labor or travel, so this
was kinda it.
Decline of the Lowell System276 WHYYYYY I CRI EVERYTIM!!1!!!! - The problem with the
Lowell System was that it involved paying for the food, shelter, and education of a bunch of
people ALONG with wages. Factories that used this system had to cut costs, which meant the
quality of living + the wages went down. Uh oh!
Plus there were a few developments that made the Lowell System less viable in the Meta
- Domestic work for women got a buff, so many women were instead choosing to become
teachers or domestic servants
- Immigrants were added to the meta, and they were willing to work for a lot cheaper.
Economic Advantages of Immigrant Labor 277 Immigrants were great for the factory workers
and railroad companies, as they could do a lot of the mindless or hard labor jobs that were
needed, and for CHEAP too. There were a lot of immigrants, and people didn’t really like
immigrants, so Immigrants had to be willing to work for basically nothing if they wanted to work
at all.
Harsh Working Conditions pg 277 Because labor was so cheap now, Factory owners started
cutting costs in the Human and Safety departments. Factories were very loud, unsanitary, and
large. In addition, the Average workday was 12 Hours and people made like $10 a week at most
for white skilled workers. Some people were lucky to get PAID in the first place.
De Skilling pg 277 LITERAL SKILL ISSUE IN THE TEXTBOOK????? - The factory system
made life really hard for artisans and small business owners, as they could not compete with the
prices and production of Factories. To not get obliterated, many small businesses came together
to creat Labor unions to resist the new economic shifts.
National Trade Unions 277 She National on my Trade till I Union! Let’s talk about American
Industry . America Industry go bOOM! And now, there is very little need for artisans and skilled
workers since most of that stuff they make can be bought for little to nothing (albeit for a lower
quality). This led to the first Unions in the US in order to protect the jobs of these artisans and
skilled workers.
This early craft union movement fared poorly. Labor leaders struggled against some laws and
the panic of 1837 only made things worse.



[PAGE 87]

Commonwealth V Hunt 278 AN important ruling that basically declared that Unions were legal
organizations and that Striking was a lawful method of protest. However, the amount of
Immigrants willing to work for cheap made Striking pretty much useless for the time being.
Female Protective Unions 278 Many Worker’s unions didn’t include WOMEN because yeah.
However, women began to form their own unions, which shared in the fact that they had no
power like other Unions. These unions however DID serve as effective mutual aid organizations
for women’s rights groups and the like. (this sentence makes no sense but like)
America’s Divided Working class 278 The American Working class had very little power, and
couldn’t really change the status quo much, unlike in England. Like Mentioned earlier, the sheer
number of immigrants and their willingness to work for pretty much nothing made Striking
useless. Also, the Working class was busy being racist and anti-immigrant rather than focusing
on their employers and the poor working conditions they lived in. Also these factory owners had
a lot of political power anyway so…
Increasing Wealth Inequalities pg 279 The growth of the Economy boosted the average income
of a citizen, but this average was skewed as heck. So in like, a sample size of like 5, the
numbers went from (1 , 2, 2 2, 3) to like (1, 1, 1, 2, 256). Like the average went up, but like one
guy got all the money. Plus other people got poorer
Bad example aside,
Basically a majority of the people did not benefit from the growing economy, and only the rich
people who owned corporations or factories got real benefits from the new booming economy.
In addition, rich people in the US started gathering together, creating aristocratic clubs and
social rituals(island??), and building mansions and huh this is starting to sound familiar.
Central Park 280 Rich people wanted a place to flex, so they made a cool park. Designed to suit
the flexing and lives of the rich, the Park soon became an important part of New York City as
Whole.
The Urban Poor 280 With the growing amount of rich people, there was also a SIGNIFICANT
amount of people with literally nothing whatsoever. These people were often without anything to
their names, and depended on charity or crime to survive. THese people were often Immigrants
who failed to find work, or widows. Some people suffered from alcoholism or mental illness, or
others were discriminated against
African American Poverty 280 - If there was one minority group that had terrible lives in these
urban areas it was African Americans. Often descendants of Free slaves or were free slaves
themselves, African Americans had even less opportunity for jobs and no access to education.
They also couldn’t vote or had any social status.
Still better than slavery though.



[PAGE 88]

Social Mobility 281 Despite the past few topics suggesting that a class war was going to break
out or something, there were a few things preventing this from happening. Despite the overall
decline in economic position of people (wealth disparity), the overall standard of life for people
was at a net increase. More people had houses. And clothes. And food. And they could buy stuff
sometimes even!
There was a lot of mobility within the Working Class as well. People WERE able to make it rich
(very very very few), which gave people enough hope to keep on working in the factories. Often,
people could rise a noticeable amount in their lifetime, for example from an unskilled worker to a
skilled worker. These people could see their children or grandchildren moving farther up the
social ladder.
Yeah gonna stop here my fingers hurt a lot
Rapidly Expanding Middle Class 281 The growth of the economy and the growing industry led
to a lot of products being produced, and more people had the money to buy stuff, expanding the
middle class. Many people began to become merchants or engage in trade. Class began to
depend on money, rather than land . Middle Class families often lived in nice homes and many
people began to rent homes rather than buy them. Nah this is fine ryan
New Household Inventions 281 New home inventions like Stoves really made life more
convenient. That’s really it. Also the fridge is a thing now! Yeah! I love fridges!
Growing Class Distinctions 282 The differences between classes began to expand greatly due
to things like new houses and more goods being able to be bought. People could buy things like
curtains or furniture, or wall paper. In addition, houses started to become ways for people to
flex their wealth.
Declining Economic Role of the Family 282
Falling Birth Rates 282 Because people don’t have to worry about having kids to work the farm
and stuff anymore, the Birth Rate decreased a lot. In addition, the fact more people lived in
urban cities meant there was less space for a lot of kids. Also birth control started to become a
thing.
Female Education 283 As we all should expect, women were not granted the same privileges as
men in the field of education. Women despite being urged to have elementary education, were
discouraged to pursue higher education. And unfortunately, even if they did, many women’s
schools taught women how to be…better wives…
On a separate note, Oberlin College in Ohio I became the first college to accept female
students, permitting its first four in 1837. Oberlin upon accepting these 4 students received a ton
of backlash, namely from people thinking that the acceptance of women into the school system



[PAGE 89]

would cause romantic relationships between students which would hinder their studies (it really
didn’t). Luckily, Oberlin held true to their belief that female and male students could coexist on a
campus together learning the same curriculum, and held this belief true for the rest of its
existence.
New Roles for Women 283 Now that Americans had once again settled down and had no
reason to make a ton of money, women unfortunately lost their role as income producers for the
household, instead were often put in places as just mothers and wives. The textbook tries to
somehow paint this in a positive light, saying that because they lost their social role as income
producers they instead got to have “high value” cleaning and “entertainment” as well as being…
“dress[ed] elegantly and stylishly.” Which just sounds like they were… treated like trophies…
.
Women’s Separate SPhere 286 Women developed a significantly different culture from men in
America, such as super tight-knit friendships and social networks, along with literature being
super popular with women. Godey’s Lady’s Book became extremely popular during the 1800s,
and would talk about topics such as fashion, shopping, and homemaking. Politics and religion
were deemed inappropriate for women at the time, and this was also reflected in the magazine.
Again, the textbook does not do a good job painting this in a positive light, because what it’s
basically saying here is that women should be locked out of politics and religion ( it doesn’t
ever use any words to negatively denounce this fact). Fucked up honestly.
Benefits and Costs 286 WAIT WHAT THE FUCK IS THE BOOK COOKING HERE So what the
textbook here is saying is that this period in which Women were forced back into homes and
had their jobs taken and were basically fully isolated from the public world is one in which the
role that women played in homes was strengthened, therefore making women more publicly
powerful??? WHAT THE FUCK. If you want the “unbiased view of the textbook” though, here it
is :|... women became the main religious and moral educators of the home since they were often
the ones who spent the most time with children, and were “custodians of morality and
benevolence”. Along with this, because women were left at home all the time, they got to “live
lives of greater material comfort than in the past”. Which I mean…”sure”?? But at the same time
is that necessarily a good thing overall???
Working Class Women 287 As can be seen in the other terms here, women seem to be living
the average 1800s housewife lifestyle of doing nothing stay at home because uh…social norm.
And misogyny. Of fucking course. On the other hand, lower income brackets in the US often
required the wives of the house to also go out and seek work, specifically lower income jobs
similar to their husbands, this was due to the increasing living cost of America due to American
capitalism and the fact that these jobs simply paid so little, again, thanks to American capitalism.
Minstrel Shows 287 Leisure activities were generally reserved only for the rich in America, and
the average American only had Sunday off for religion and a break for the week. These



[PAGE 90]

Sundays were generally filled with middle class or wealthy people enjoying a broad array of
public spectacles, such as dramas, sporting events (such as the early Baseball), circuses, and
Minstrel Shows… which is… blackface… I don’t know why the textbook doesn’t give the term
here but I guess it’s just a textbook moment.
PT Barnum 287 isnt this guy like a really bad person? Yeah screw this guy
PT Barnum is a public entertainer who really popularized things like Circuses or Theaters. He is
known for his freak shows, populated by people with genetic deformities like dwarfism, siamese
twins, and also other entertainers like Magicians. Barnum was really good at convincing people
to see his shows, using eye-grabbing posters and elaborate newspaper articles. He also used
lectures where people told their stories of historical events or exotic places to capture the
audience
Rise of Commercial Agriculture 288 Agriculture as an industry became more and more like an
industry tied to American capitalism (if that doesn’t make sense, you can think of it as how the
tech market in California makes up a big portion of the Calfornian economy over manufacturing
in the California economy). Basically what this meant was that the agriculture market would
work in some parts of the US super well, and other parts not so well.
Truck Farming in the Northeast 288 Let’s get a little context out of the way: agriculture economy
in the Northeast is dead in the water. The Soil there is ass and there is no reason to farm there
when you can move to the Northwest and make so much more money there for half the cost.
This resulted in the “truck farming” economy in the Northeast. Because Northeastern folks saw
no reason to farm tobacco or cotton(cash crops) like they used to, they instead turned to
supplying cities with food, growing vegetables and fruit instead to be sold locally.
Industrialization in the Old Northwest 288 Because of the drop in agricultural markets in the
Northeast, most of the northeast started to go into industry. Some 209,909 workers were
employed in the North by 1860, and the number kept growing. Cleveland became an incredible
industrial center, as did Cincinnati with its meatpacking industry. But most importantly, Chicago
became the great metropolis of the region, with both agricultural machinery and meatpacking.
Agricultural Specialization 289 As said before, the agricultural industry in America became more
and more included in American capitalism, and as capitalism does, capitalism promotes
competition. Farmers in the Northwest(remember, Northeast no more farming) began to focus
on farming specific crops for profits, whether that be a crop like corn, wheat, or any sort of
livestock. (fun fact, corn is in 75% of all of our processed food, the only reason why Indiana
exists)
New Agricultural Technologies 289 Uh basically because of Agriculture being more and more of
a capitalist market, individual farmers and companies saw a need to improve their own tools for
farming. Farmers started to cultivate new varieties of crops that would grow a lot more resilient



[PAGE 91]

to nature and would also be larger(fun fact: did you know that modern day corn is not actually a
natural crop? It was one of the earliest forms of a GMO made by Indigenous American people),
import better (? In what way textbook) livestock from Europe, and improve on tools and
machines that American inventors were producing at the time.
McCormick Reaper 289 The McCormick Reaper is a farming technology that was invented by
Cyrus H Cormick to harvest a ton of wheat, and only required one worker to use it. He patented
in 1834 and made a factory for it in 1847 and started producing his invention in Chicago, and by
1860, more than 100,000 reapers had been sold. (dude reaper is such a cool ass name for a
farming device) The important thing to note for this term here is that it’s just a byproduct of the
demand from farmers for better agricultural technology which in turn was caused by agriculture
becoming increasingly involved in the American capitalist system.
Importance of Religion in RUral COmmunities 290 Religion brought farm communities together
more than any other force, since so many farm areas were populated by people of common
ethnic backgrounds. Churches were common meeting places for both services and social
events—most of them dominated by women. Even in areas with no organized churches, farm
families–and again, women in particular–gathered in one another’s homes for prayer meetings,
Bible readings, and other religious activities.
THIS MARKS THE PART WHERE THE SLAVERY CHAPTER STARTS
Decline of the Tobacco Economy 294 Tobacco was a staple crop that made money, but the thing
was that the Tobacco Market was unstable as heck. Tobacco could be worth a lot of money one
day, and be worthless the next. In addition Tobacco drained the land of nutrients, making long
term Tobacco Farming almost impossible. This caused many to search for a new crop that
wouldn’t drain the land and also be more stable.
Some States Like Georgia and Florida tried growing rice. However rice required lots of irrigation
and had a long growing season of 9 months. Sugar was too labor intensive, and only the rich
could afford to grow it.
Short Staple Cotton 294 The South found their new cash crop in Short Staple Cotton. Short
Staple Cotton was a hardier and coarser strain of cotton that survived in a lot of differing
climates and soils. It also had harder to pluck seeds, but the cotton gin made that problem
irrelevant. So everyone started growing this cheaper, hardier, (less soft :( ) and overall better
profit cotton.
Spread of Cotton Production 295 Of course since this cotton was easier to grow and cheaper,
everyone started to grow Short Staple Cotton. By the 1850s, Cotton became the main thing
sustaining the Southern Economies, producing 3 million Bales a year in 1850.The Cotton price
fluctuated from overproduction, but even still, the Cotton Economy grew and grew. By the Civil
War, Cotton was ⅔ of All US exports.



[PAGE 92]

Expansion of Slavery 295 Because Cotton was such a valuable crop, the amount of slaves in
the South increased to meet the demand and the need for labor. The amount of slaves in places
like Alabama increased tenfold from 41,000 to 435,000
Weak Manufacturing Sector 295 Despite all the Agricultural growth, other forms of economic
activity in the South were lacking. Manufacturing and Merchants were miniscule compared to
the value of raw cotton in the South. However, the brokers that helped sell cotton or the “factors”
were still important, as they connected farmers to buyers of cotton. They often also served as
bankers, providing farmers with credit. Many in the south were in debt, especially during
economic drops in cotton prices.
Inadequate Regional Transportation System 297 The South’s banks were extremely
inadequate, and credit seemed to be nonexistent, resulting in most planters being in constant
debt due to drops in the cotton market. Thus, planters became super reliant on the merchants
that bought their product. In addition, The South also had terrible transportation infrastructure, to
the point where even the advanced canal and road systems seen in the North couldn’t influence
the growth in the South. The only hope was a railroad system that was built in the South, but
was so sparse that it held no significant change to transportation in the South. w
De Bow’s Review 298 The South soon realized just how dependent they were economically on
the North. They bought all their products from the North and sold all their products to the North.
(mainly because, as said before, terrible infrastructure and also the fact that the South made no
efforts to open up any ports). De Bow’s Review was an article written by James De Bow which
discussed the idea of an economically-independent South, stating how the fees they paid to the
North was a resulting loss of “$100,000,000” (maybe a slight exaggeration). Ironically enough,
the article was also mainly produced in the North, since New Orleans had no printing press, and
had advertisements in the article from nothing but Northern manufacturing firms. This only went
to show just how economically dependent the South was on the North.
READING QUIZ#8 INFO ENDS HERE
Reasons for Colonial Dependence 298 You may ask now, why did the South not do anything to
actually facilitate economic independence? There is a multitude of reasons, for one, the main
economy of the South, the cotton industry made so much money for planters that they had no
real reason to care about the North. The fees were slightly annoying to pay but at the end of the
day most of the money they had was not needed. Another reason behind this is that a lot of
Southern planters didn’t have a lot of money that they were willing to invest. Sure they made a
lot of money, but that money was more like spending money, there wasn’t a lot of space that
planters made for investment projects. This is because of the slaves and land that they bought
leaving them with little to no money.
This is me when i have lots of cotton and not lots of investment money fr ong no cap



[PAGE 93]

Planter Aristocracy 298 The South, even for how poor it was overall , was dominated by
individual plantation owners which would have up to 40-50 enslaved while also owning 800 or
more acres of land. This was the “Planter Aristocracy” for just how much control was centered in
the hands of a couple people.
The Cavalier Image 298 Because of the differences between Northern and Southern White
Americans (namely in the department of industry), this led to the South feeling they were more
“refined” and “elegant” from their Yankee counterparts, and thus the “cavalier” nickname started.
How did no industry = more refinement? The textbook mentions this is mostly because the
Southern planters don’t have a big hardworking and manual labor culture, so they live lives of
leisure sponsored by the backbreaking labor of the enslaved population.
Plantation Management 299 (see “cavalier image” right above this term for context). The
Southern plantation life wasn’t all leisure (but it mostly was let’s be honest), and the whole
“cavalier” image was generally shattered by the fact that growing cotton and managing
plantations was pretty logistically tough (still not nearly as tough as the work that enslaved
people had to go through). Uhm. I have tried a decent amount while typing this section to be as
unbiased as possible (besides any portion with Andrew Jackson in it) but honestly I just can’t be
asked for this one. Why does the textbook feel the need to say “oOh the plantation owners
weren’t ALL just yacht trips and Europe travel”, like OF COURSE NOT EVERYBODY HAS TO
DO THEIR JOB. JEFF BEZOS STILL SPENDS 2 HOURS ANSWERING EMAILS BUT IT
DOESN’T CHANGE THE FACT HE SITS ON HIS ASS ALL DAY AND SPENDS HIS MONEY
LIKE A LITTLE CHILD. Like what is the point of this term??????? Who are you pleasing????
(oh my bad I forgot, Florida)
Aristocratic Values 299 The Southern planters often saw themselves buying into an idea that
they were more refined than the Northerners(as discussed before), and developed their own
culture about the “aristocracy” they were so proud of. Southerners would often have their
children work more “honorable” jobs than working as merchants or traders, instead opting to
have their kids go into the military (similar to when rich folks would send their kids off to be
knights in the medieval era).
Cult of honor 300 Rich White people developed their own code of honor in the south, and this
led to many duels when people’s egos got hurt too much. You could say that they fought For
Honor?????? Yifei Fung buy for honor. This differed greatly from the North, where people did
not fight to the death when they disagreed with people. In the South, Courtesy and acting
properly was a key part of society for the rich, which differs greatly from the terrible ways they
treated their slaves. Honor was also tied to the importance of public image or social statues.
This whole honor thing causes a lot of fights, like when the South Carolina congressman
Preston Brooks beat the shit out of Charles Sumner of Massachusetts because he thought he
insulted his relative. In the North, people were pissed, but in the South this guy became a hero.
As the book puts it, “Avenging insults was a social necessity”. Uh what? Wow this is like reddit
but real life.



[PAGE 94]

Subordinate Status of Women hei The “Cult of Honor” (see term above) also affected women in
the South. Men put emphasis on Whiteknighting themselves in defense of women. This led to
even MORE of a male dominant culture in the South, and as George Fitzhugh, a Southern
social theorist wrote, “women, like children, have but one right, and that is the right to protection.
The right to protection involves the obligation to obey.”
Other Burdens 301 It gets worse. Because of course it does. Women received even less
schooling than before, with 25% of all white women being completely illiterate, and many
schools in the south that were specifically designed for women didn’t teach GE at all, but
instead how to be a “suitable wife”... It gets EVEN WORSE. Infant mortality rate was super high,
and as such birth rates in the South were 20% higher than the North. In addition, plantation
wives who couldn’t bear like 10 kids in 2 years would often have to live with the fact that their
husbands would go ahead and have (non-consensual) sexual relationships with female
enslaved peoples on their plantations. So who wins in this situation? The male plantation owner.
Who loses? Everybody else.
Limited Educational Opportunities 302 In 1860, only 260 total colleges and universities
combined were in the south, with only 25,000 students enrolled in them, and most if not all of
them being of wealthy upbringing. Elementary schools in the South sucked ass and as a result a
large illiterate population in the South started growing. What did this cause? Well, if you haven’t
noticed, we have talked a lot about planters and plantation owners, but the vast majority of white
people in the South were actually independent smaller farmers. At most they would have 4-5
enslaved people and would often have to work with them as well as live with them, but most of
these independent farmers were not enslaved and would have to work the fields themselves.
The nickname they got was the “Yeoman”. I have no clue what this means. It sounds like a slur.
Hill people 302 Hill People were isolated non slave owning white families that would seclude
themselves, well, in hills and mountains. They prided themselves on their seclusion and
self-reliance along with hating the planter elite. They had virtually no access to modern society
or money, and as such they often traded for goods that they could not grow themselves.
COmmitment to Paternalism 302 Yeah so the whole uh “no women’s rights” thing? Still going on
unfortunately. Men dominated family structures in the Southern planting economy. Women and
children were seen as “labor and workforce” which is just ABSURD. This actually resulted in a
really strong pro-slavery propaganda because it was believed that if the North were to get rid of
Slavery, they would also get rid of the Patriarchy system put in place in the South. (just goes to
show how cooked the Southern ideals were).
Close Relations with the Plantation Aristocracy 302 As discussed before, the majority of the
White people in the South were actually non-slave owning farmers who made their profits also
by farming, just to a lesser extent. What resulted in this was a system in which the small
independent farmers relied on plantation owners for cotton gins and markets. In addition, a lot of
poor farmers would often be related to plantation owners somehow, resulting in tight-knit
communities.



[PAGE 95]

Limited Class Conflict 303 Despite the massive income gaps in the South, people found a way
to band together despite their social classes in order to make themselves feel better about
themselves and also feel unified, you guessed it, racism :)) I love how the textbook almost tries
to portray this as a GOOD THING.
Legal Basis of Slavery 303 So I don’t know what a “legal basis of slavery” is, but this should be
renamed to “Lack of rights for the Enslaved”, because this is really what this section is about.
Enslaved people had no legal rights to marry, in some states they could not learn to read and
write, congregate in large groups, leave without permission, be out after dark, strike a White
person even in self defense, and for resisting Slave Owners demands, they could receive a
death penalty. Also, if an enslaved person was killed during physical violence from their slave
owners, the slave owners could get off for free without any legal repercussions.
Reality of Slavery 303 I REFUSE to type this one out. If you want to read it yourself you can, or
if anybody else wants to do this one. H ey Kids! Did you know that despite all the torture, sexual
assault, and forced labor, slavery really wasn’t that bad? Some slaves could own property!
Some could even learn to read! Wow! Aren’t plantation owners so nice? And did you know that
slaves often had their autonomy? And their white owners worked really really hard too! They did
important stuff like supervising their workers.
Yeah the book aint cooking here at all wtf is this.
Task and Gang Systems 303 The Task and Gang system were the 2 systems used by plantation
owners to organize slaves to work. The Task system was one in which slaves were assigned
different tasks to do AMONG US , and the other more common system was the Gang system.
The Gang system was a system in which enslaved people were split into groups and were put
to work.
Special Position of women 304 Enslaved women generally had a lot harder of a time than their
male counterparts. This is because in addition to working the fields for the same amount of time
as the other male enslaved on a plantation, they also had duties of caretaker for children and
also the cooks for the family.
High Slave Mortality rates 304 Slaves had a much higher death rate when compared to their
White counterparts. This is due to the poverty and squalid conditions many slaves lived in.
Slaves died a lot younger than white people due to the inhumane working conditions.
AND THEN THE TEXTBOOK SAYS HOWEVER??????
ok the textbook says that some people believed that Slaves were treated better than peasants
in Europe and Northern Factory Workers. It also says slaves in the South were treated better
than slaves in the Caribbean and South America???? What?? That isn’t really a good thing…
The book then goes on to talk about how since cotton was such an important part of the
Southern Economy, slave owners had to actually care for their slaves since buying slaves was



[PAGE 96]

illegal at this point (but owning them isn’t i guess). Slave owners were also very very nice and
often waited until children were out of early adolescence before forcing them to do hard labor.
How kind!
What the hell is the book cooking
Ok actually an interesting point made in the book now, in some areas, Immigrants were treated
like slaves or even worse. Since buying slaves is illegal and expensive, slave owners were
motivated to keep their slaves alive. But there are a LOT of immigrants willing to work for cheap
and thus immigrants were considered more replaceable.
Overall I don't think the book is cooking in this part. uh.
House Slaves 305 Household servants had a bit of an easier life than those who tended to the
fields. Some slaves served as domestic workers; cooking, cleaning, and nursing children and
stuff like that. These people lived closer to their masters and often gotta eat the leftovers of the
family dinners. Very few slaves developed almost familial relationships with their masters, but
the Majority of slaves resented their isolation and their lack of privacy. They often were punished
much more severely due to their proximity to their owners.
Sexual Abuse 305 Enslaved females that would work in the houses of plantation owners were
often subject to unconsenting sexual relationships with the owner. This caused enslaved
females that had these non-consensual relationships to be often harshly treated by the
plantation owner's wife out of basically jealousy. This included just being physically abused out
of nowhere, increased workloads, and other various, as the book puts it, “psychological
torment”(s).
Autonomy of Urban Slaves 306 Enslaved people in the Northern cities were treated a lot
differently than their counterparts in the south. For one, enslaved people in the Northern cities
often were sent out in the city to do tasks by their masters, meaning they got a lot more time to
mingle with free African Americans and White people, which resulted in many enslaved people
seeing much reason to free themselves or request their freedom. In addition to this factor, slave
owners in the North started to see less of a reason to have an enslaved person in their home
when they could instead choose to hire a heavily underpaid Irish immigrant to work for them as
well, resulting in an increasing urge for slave owners to ditch slavery as a whole, adding fuel to
the fire that was the abolitionist movement in the North. In the South, if Slaveowners wanted to
get any work done in the city or the North, they would often send an enslaved person to that
location to do the work for them, after all, city work is not as ‘refined’ or ‘cavalier-like’ as farm
work. They would also hire enslaved people to do the work for them, often in fields such as
mining, lumbering, or in the case of female enslaved people, textile work. It is still important to
note that even if the abolitionist movement was in full swing in the North, the abolitionist
movement only supported the removal of Slavery as a system, not the unjust treatment of
African Americans. In fact, many abolitionists had the motive to still keep African Americans and
White Americans separated, and many abolitionists still had racist ideas.



[PAGE 97]

TIghtened Restrictions on Free Blacks 307 Due to the rebellions such as Nat Turner’s rebellion,
many white southerners feared rebellions from both slaves and free African Americans.
Because of this fear, laws were created to limit the rights of Slaves even more, to the point
where legally it was pretty much impossible to free a slave. In addition, other laws restricted
travel HEAVILY for Slaves and Freed African Americans alike.
Slave Markets 307 The Slave Trade contributed to the dehumanization of the Enslaved people
in America. Slave traders were often given upwards of $1.7k(big money in today’s terms) for
trips, and at a minimum 500$, and were mostly asked to transport enslaved domestically from
one end of the South to another. To transport enslaved peoples, inhuman methods such as
coffles were used to keep groups of Enslaved people together, and on top of that, families were
often separated, children from parents, and parents from each other.
The Foreign Slave Trade 308 Ok so at this point, it is ILLEGAL to import slaves into the US.
However, slaves still are smuggled into the US (albeit not a lot) because people still want more
slaves. This led to a weird legal grey area for the US, as there WERE slave rebellions on many
of these illegal slave trading ships. The slaves that revolted were granted their freedom because
they weren’t considered legal slaves due to being imported.
Prosser and Turner Rebellions 309 In 1800, Gabriel Prosser gathered 1,000 rebellious slaves
outside Richmond; but two Africans gave the plot away, and the Virginia militia stopped the
uprising before it began. Prosser and 35 others were executed. In 1822, Denmark Vesey and
his followers made preparations for revolt, but the plan was leaked out again, and suppression
and retribution followed. In 1831, a man named Nat Turner led a band of African Americans who
armed themselves with guns and axes and killed 60 white men, women, and children before
being overpowered by state and federal troops.
Slave Resistance 310 Some slaves stole from their masters or from neighboring whites. Some
performed isolated acts of sabotage; losing or breaking tools (Southern planters gradually
began to buy unusually heavy hoes because so many of the lighter ones got broken) or
performing tasks improperly. Many African Americans resisted by building subtle methods of
rebellion into their normal patterns of behavior.
Pidgin 310 Pidgin is the name of a common language created by slaves that combines many
words from African cultures, and also bits of English as well. This language was created as
many different Slaves from different African nations had to communicate with each other.
Eventually Pidgin and English would combine into almost an accent or a way of speech for
generations.
Importance of Slave Spirituals 310 Music was especially important in slave society. In some
ways, it was as important to African Americans as language. Most important were voices and



[PAGE 98]

song; field workers often used songs to pass time in the fields. Since they sang them in the
presence of whites, they usually attached relatively innocuous words to them.
Slave Religion 312 African American Christianity was a mix of both polytheistic religions from
their own cultures and good ole’ fashioned Christianity. African American christianity held a lot
more positive and hopeful tone of prayer and song, mostly influenced by the hope of freedom,
(honestly the cooler Christianity) and these traditions and customs carry on today.
Slave Marriages 312 Enslaved people in the 19th century saw marriage as a very important
aspect of their lives. Enslaved peoples found themselves having chil dren at pretty young ages
(14,15 even), and premarital children were common. Generally, marriage would happen after a
first child. Enslaved people were occasionally permitted by their masters to marry and see each
other, but most of the time these things were done in complete secrecy and at the dead of night.
Importance of Kinship Networks 312 The marriages that enslaved people were normally part of
never actually
Paternal Nature of Slavery 312 The book tries to be a bit sympathetic with slavery? Basically the
idea is that Slaves aren’t entirely fueled by hate because they are dependent on their owners for
food and shelter (i wonder why book?) By creating dependency on their owners, the idea is that
slaves will be more compliant.
National Cultural Aspirations 315 America wanted to assert itself as a hub of both artistic and
intellectual discussion. They hoped to become better than Europe in its art, and also wanted to
display the US’s unique values through its culture. However America also wanted to adapt the
European ideas of romanticism and Enlightenment.
Hudson River School 316 A “School” of American painters. They painted the vistas of the
rugged and still largely unsettled Hudson Valley. They considered nature the best source of
wisdom and spiritual fulfillment.
Cooper and the American Wilderness 316 James Fenimore Cooper. He wrote more than thirty
novels in the span of three decades, and was known to his contemporaries as a master of
adventure and suspense. What set him apart was his evocation of the American wilderness.
Cooper grew up in central New York, at a time when the edge of white settlement was not far
away.
Herman Melville 317 The new literary concern with the unleashing of human emotions did not
always produce such optimistic works, as the work of Herman Melville suggests.
Southern Romanticism 317 Southern novelists of the 1830s (among them Beverly Tucker,
William Alexander Caruthers, and John Pendleton Kennedy), some of them writers of great
talent, many of them residents of Richmond, produced historical romances or romantic eulogies
of the plantation system of the upper South.



[PAGE 99]

Ralph Waldo Emerson 318 Hey I know this guy! - a renowned essayist, activist, and abolitionist,
Ralph Waldo Emerson would start the Transcendentalist Movement, a movement focused on
the inherent goodness of people and nature. He would write many essays about Humanity and
their relationship to nature, and he would be considered an important intellectual in his era.
Thoreau and Civil Disobedience 318 Thoreau’s rejection of what he considered the artificial
constraints of society extended as well to his relationship with the government. In 1846, he went
to jail rather than agree to pay a toll tax. He insisted that he would not give financial support to a
government that permitted the existence of slavery.
Brook Farm 318 Although transcendentalism was above all an individualistic philosophy, it
helped spawn the most famous of all 19th century experiments in communal living: Brook Farm.
Brook Farm was an experimental community established by George Ripley in West Roxbury,
Massachusetts, in 1841.
There, according to Ripley, individuals would gather to create a new form of social organization.
All residents would share equally in the labor of the community so that all could share in the
leisure. In the end, the experiment was dissolved when tensions between the ideal of individual
freedom and the demands of a communal society rose to their highest, as well as when a fire
destroyed the central building of the community.
New Harmony 319 The failure of Brook Farm did not prevent the formation of other
experimental communities. Some followed in Ripley’s footsteps and borrowed from the ideas of
the French philosopher Charles Fourier, while others drew from the ideas of the Scottish
industrialist and philanthropist Robert Owen. Owen himself founded an experimental community
in Indiana in 1825, which he named New Harmony. It was to be a “Village of Cooperation,” in
which every resident worked and lived in total equality. The community was an economic failure,
but the vision that had inspired it continued to enchant Americans.
Redefined gender roles as the Oneida Community 319 SAM O NELLA??????? A redefinition of
gender roles was crucial to o zeb ne of the most enduring utopian colonies of the 19th century:
the Oneida Community, established in 1848 in New York by John Humphrey Noyes. The Oneida
“Perfectionists,” as residents of the community called themselves, rejected traditional notions of
family and marriage. Basically it was Polygamy but the creator lived in denial. Yeah, pretty much
it. Read more if you're interested.
The Shakers 320 The most distinctive feature of Shakerism was its commitment to complete
celibacy–which meant that no one could be born into the religion. Instead, all Shakers had to
choose it voluntarily. Shaker communities attracted about six thousand members in the 1840s,
more women than men; and members lived in conditions in which the contact between men and
women were very limited. Shakers openly endorsed the idea of sexual equality, and they even
embraced the idea of a God who was not clearly male or female.



[PAGE 100]

Women held the most power in the Shaker society. Shakerism was a refuge from the
“perversions of marriage” and “the gross abuses which drag it down.”
Joseph Smith 320 Leader of the Mormons, he published the Book of Mormon. According to
Smith, it was a translation of a set of golden tablets he had found in the hills of New York,
revealed to him by an angel of God. The Book of Mormon told the story of an ancient and
successful civilization in America, populated by one of the lost tribes of Israel who had found
their way to the new World centuries before Columbus.
Establishment of Salt Lake City 320 Uhh uhhh Joseph Smith haters killed him, and the
Mormons, now under the leadership of Brigham Young, traveled across the desert to present
day Salt Lake City.
New Reform Movements 321 The new organizations did indeed work on behalf of a wide range
of issues: temperance; education; peace; the care of the poor, the handicapped, and the
mentally ill; the treatment of criminals; the rights of women; and many more.
Revivalism in the Burned Over District 322 The “Burned-Over District” was a place that was very
prone to religious awakenings, so it was no surprise that revivalism was so powerful there as
well.
Finney’s Doctrine of Personal Regeneration 322 Finney (The most influential revivalist leader of
the 1820s and 1830s) had the most success in Rochester, New York, where he had particular
success in mobilizing women. Finney discovered that it was effective to target the women in part
because of how appealing the message of revivalism was to them and because they provided
him with access to their male relatives.
American Society for the Promotion of Temperance 323 Although advocates of temperance had
been active since the late 18th century, the new reformers gave the movement an energy and
influence it had never previously known. In 1826, the American Society for the Promotion of
Temperance emerged as a coordinating agency among various groups.It attempted to use
many of the techniques of revivalism in preaching abstinence.
Cultural Divisions over Alcohol 323 The search for social discipline was particularly clear in the
battle over prohibition laws, which pitted established Protestants against new Catholic
immigrants, to many of whom drinking was an important social ritual and an integral part of the
life of their communities.
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––INTERLUDE: STATS–––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
You know when we hit 100 pages we should do a stats thing, like amount of vocab terms per
person and stuff like that.
sure
So far we have like roughly 28068 uses of the letter e until this sentence as of 10/26
There are 101 mentions of Fr * nce as of 11/6



[PAGE 101]

censored.
Me when the textbook has the n-word in it… yeah… so do my texts…
Textbook has been mentioned 54 times total! That’s 54 times we have complained about the
textbook being absolute bullshit
There are 14142 characters in the weird fucking block of text at the start
HEY it isn’t weird, it's a valid discussion on life, happiness, and the human condition.
Thats around ike 40% of the whole document bro no shots
And a decent amount of the text is just ian’s fnaf script
Also some fun(?) facts
They have photos of the actual victims on Jack the Ripper’s wikipedia page post (its really bad
though like warning warning)
There is a devil may cry clone that is also a musical for the PS2. This game is also the official
canon sequel to The Nightmare Before Christmas . It was made by the developers of Devil May
Cry.
Guys did you know that Markiplier was supposed to be the security guard in the FNAF movie??
I have done about 158 Vocab Terms Roughly up to this point (counted while scrolling through
so give or take like 3)
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
Phrenology 324 - Some new scientific idea that the shape of one’s scuff defines their personality
and intelligence. They like, measure parts of the skull and stuff and try to connect it to how
smart someone is?
Discovery of Contagion 325 - Oliver Wendell Holmes figured out that BACTERIA causes
disease no way. Oh and there's more, get this. DISEASE CAN BE SPREAD FROM ONE
PERSON TO ANOTHER! WOW! People thought this guy was crazy though, poor guy. Also the
book mentions that this guy made his students wash their hands after autopsies and people
didn’t get sick anymore. The implications are uh……. WHAT DID THEY LIKE DISSECT SOME
GUY AND THEN HAVE LUNCH OR SOMETHING????????
Rapid Growth of Public Education 325 - People started taking education more seriously, and
there were efforts to create a universal education system. In the 1830s, the belief that people
could achieve more with education led to many people trying to reform education. People like
Horace Mann of Massachusetts tried to reorganize the education system and get teachers to be
paid more. Other States did similar reforms, such as Pennsylvania passing a law that approved
State Funding for schools.



[PAGE 102]

By the 1850s, Tax funded schools were an accepted part of life in many states, and education
was starting to get reformed.
Some schools still sucked though, especially in rural areas like the west.
Achievements of Educational Reform 326 - Despite limitations and inequities, the achievements
of the school reformers were impressive by any standard. By the beginning of the Civil War, the
United States had one of the highest literacy rates of any nation.
The Benevolent Empire 326 - A similar emphasis on the potential of the individual sparked the
creation of new institutions to help the handicapped, institutions that formed part of a great
network of charitable activities known as the Benevolent Empire.
The Asylum Movement 326 - Asylums are created for criminals and for the mentally ill. On one
hand, in advocating prison and hospital reform, Americans were reacting to one of society’s
most glaring ills. Criminals of all kinds, debtors unable to pay their debts, the mentally ill, even
senile poor people–were crowded together into prisons and jails, which, in some cases, were
holes in the ground.
Prison Reform 326 - The creation of asylums for social deviants was not simply an effort to curb
the abuses of the old system. It was also an attempt to reform and rehabilitate the inmates. New
forms of rigid prison discipline were designed to rid criminals of the “laxness” that had
presumably led them astray.
Reform Movements and the Rise of Feminism 327 - Women in the 1830s and 1840s faced not
only all the traditional restrictions imposed on members of their sex by society, but also a new
set of barriers that had emerged from the doctrine of “separate spheres” and the transformation
of the family.
Seneca Falls Convention 330 - An organized meeting In 1848, where many people came to
discuss the very radical and crazy idea of Women’s rights. The meeting resulted in a
“Declaration of Sentiments” similar to the Declaration of Independence that stated that Women
deserve the same rights as men, including the right to vote. They wouldn’t get the right until
1920, but this is considered to be one of the main landmarks in the Push for Women’s rights.
READING QUIZ#9 INFO STARTS HERE
Limited Progress for Women 330 - But in this time period right now, Women’s rights are
improving at the slowest pace imaginable pretty much. Some women get marriage rights or low
places in government. And many women’s education groups are created. The book says that
Feminism was ignored because of Abolitionism, which I guess it’s true but that makes it sound
like only one social reform movement could happen at once.



[PAGE 103]

American Colonization Society 330 - A group of people who were against slavery (yay), but
wanted to get rid of slavery by sending all the slaves to Africa (boo). This of course, ignores the
fact that by this point, almost all slaves have been born in the US at this point, so like, Africa
isn’t really a homeland for them. It got funding from Congress somehow, and Established the
country of Liberia. Not many people got sent there though…
Failure of Colonization 331 - yeah honestly i can’t imagine that this plan would ever work out.
There were too many African Americans in America to be sent to Africa, and as mentioned
above, pretty much all slaves are like generations removed from Africa.
Garrison and The Liberator 331 - A Newspaper formed by William Lloyd Garrison that helped
spread Abolitionist ideals. Garrison’s philosophy was revolutionary for the time, imploring people
to consider the perspective of the Slave, and not the slave owner. Garrison believed that People
should not focus on the evils of slavery on society, but the harm Slavery has done to the African
people. He also argued for the complete destruction of Slavery as a whole, and also hated
Colonization (I still can’t believe people thought it was a valid solution wtf)
American Anti-Slavery Society 331 - An organization of people created in New England in 1832
that was against slavery (no way). This organization spread quickly, with over 250,000 members
and 1350 chapters all over the North. What did this organization do? What was their impact?
Good question, the textbook doesn’t say…
Free Blacks Commitment to Abolition 332 - African Americans in the North were very, very
aware of their lucky situation compared to literal slavery, and fought HARD for the freedom of
their fellow people. Despite the fact that most free African Americans lived in poverty, their
freedom was a sign of hope for progress for those in slavery. (this sentence sucks). Many
African Americans like David Walker argued for the Abolition of slavery, sometimes aggressively
through violence, but mostly through appealing to the common people,
Frederick Douglass 332 - An African American abolitionist who became a leading figure in the
Abolition movement, he purchased his own freedom and served as a public speaker arguing
against slavery. He became famous and widely known, fighting for equality for African
Americans.
Frederick Douglass was also a prominent figure in the Civil War, ultimately not only being the
one to convince Abraham Lincoln to allow free African Americans to join the Union effort but
also the one to convince Abraham Lincoln to support the advancement of Civil Rights (leading
to the all too famous Gettysburg Address).
Violent Reprisals 333 - People really didn’t like the idea of Abolition, and Abolitionists were
frequent targets for violence from people. This violence often involved mobs of angry people,
and led to the deaths of many from mass beating/shootings, often started by stupid shit like
trying to teach African American people to read or publicly associating with Abolitionism at all.
Wow.



[PAGE 104]

Moderates versus Extremists 333 - Abolitionists were divided because while some wanted to
get rid of slavery, others were considered “too radical” for wanting things like leaving the Union,
Destroying the Churches, Gender Equality, the removal of the prison system, and wanting to
remove the government or kicking all slave states out of the government. This led to a schism of
sorts between Abolitionists due to these radical ideas. Some of the more moderate Abolitionists
actually made some good progress, where the Fugitive Slave Act was essentially nullified, and
Slave Catchers were made illegal, or at least not government assisted. Also, like there are a lot
of really wild ideas for the “radical abolitionists”, and then the book just throws gender equality in
there? I guess it was wild for the time…
Harriet Beecher Stowe 335 - The author of the novel Uncle Tom’s Cabin , an antislavery novel
that became the second most popular book in the US (the bible is first). It sold over 300,000
copies within a year, and showed people the horrors of slavery through the sympathetic
Character of Uncle Tom. The book also caused a lot of discussion, and violence due to sectional
tensions.
Abolitionism’s Enduring Influence 335 - Abolitionism would have a massive impact on the
History of the United States, inspiring many other social reform movements, and reminding the
country about the divisive topic of slavery.
(it feels like the book is blaming abolitionism??? Idk it’s not saying it but im getting that vibe)
Oh boy TA Period time to type my fingers off
Manifest Destiny - Manifest Destiny is a form of American Nationalism, where people believed
that it was their divinely ordained right to expand the Country to the west, kicking out everyone
else and clearing the land for AMERICA. It’s proponents claimed that it was an attempt to
spread American freedom, but i think we know what it really was for…
DBQ stuff starts here
Racial Justification 340 People used the idea of the superior “American Race” to justify
expansion and also the murder or forced removal of Indigenous people. Everyone that wasn’t
white white was seen as inferior and bad and savage and you get the idea people are racist.
And because Americans are so much better, they have the right to expand westward with no
consequences whatsoever.
Opposition to Further expansion 341 Henry Clay and other politicians feared that expansion
would cause the whole slavery thing to boil over due to the amount of new States coming into
the Country. Yeah. That’s it. I mean they weren’t wrong…
Stephen Austin 342 - Stephen Austin is often referred to as the father of Texas. With Mexico
inviting americans to come live in Texas there was a huge migration of Southerners with slaves



[PAGE 105]

to this area. One of the southerners moving to TX was Austin. He was a Missouri immigrant and
in 1822 he was invited to live in TX.
With the increase in immigration to TX the American regions were competing in power with the
mexican government. In 1826 was the first revolt which was shut down my the Mexican Gov. but
by 1835 the American population had grown immensely to 30,00 total people.
Sand Jacinto 342 San Jacinto was a battle where General Sam Houston was able to defeat the
Mexican army and take Santa Anna as a prisoner. This would lead to the Independence of
Texas.
Opposition to Annexation 342 People didn’t want to annex Texas, because Texas would be a
slave state, which would disrupt the very very delicate balance of voting power and power in the
Senate and Electoral College. People kept on stalling annexation, leading to a brief part of time
where Texas was independent.
Disputed Claims 343 A dispute over the land of Oregon, Washington, Idaho, Montana, and
Wyoming between the US and Britain. People weren’t able to figure out or solve the dispute,
The US and Britain decided to do a joint occupation thing, where citizens of both countries
coexisted.
Conflict between Settlers and Indians 343 (common textbook racism L)
Uh yeah. You know what this is about. Many Indigenous Peoples are not happy with people
settling on their land and forcing them off the land they have had for hundreds of years. In
addition, SMALLPOX AGAIN! So now another wave of Smallpox is wiping out Native tribes,
leading to Native people fighting back. However this resistance was futile, as people kept on
coming to settle further west.
Oregon Trail 344
The Oregon Trail was the major route westward which was 200miles long from the Great Plains
to past the Rocky Mountains. The trail took around 5 months(may to nov.) and many people
would die on this route. It was especially dangerous due to the snowy rockies.
Life on the Trail 346 Life on the Oregon Trail greatly affected the culture at which American
families separated roles. Men of the families were put to drive the wagons during the day,
whereas women were assigned the task of all the other chores such as cooking and laundry.
Indigenous peoples along the trail played a huge part in the success of many of the journeys to
the West, with many White families opting to trade with them in order to maintain momentum on
the trail. In addition, there is also a running idea that the many families that partook in this
journey were completely on their own, whereas in reality, many families actually traveled in
larger groups with other friends that decided they too, wanted to join on the journey.

