[PAGE 106]

James K Polk 347 In the 1844 Election, 2 big candidates were seemingly leading the 2
American parties, former president Van Buren headed the Democratic party, while Henry Clay
led the Whig party. However, many Democrats were on the side of expanding Westward, and
Van Buren’s less aggressive ideas on Westward expansion and his lack of support for the idea
led many Democrats to actually support a certain James K Polk, who was in large support of
Westward expansion.
Compromise over Oregon 347 Polk wanted a renegotiation of that Land Dispute between the
US and Britain mentioned above, and basically threatened war unless Britain accepted a
territory divided at the 49th Parallel. Britain didn’t want a war so they just accepted the “offer”
This is often referred to as the Oregon Treaty of 1846.
American Interests in California 347 Americans found California a very tempting territory to
have, due to the access to another piece of coastal land on the other side of the continent. In
addition, the idea of trade with Mexico and the local people in California drove many to settle in
California.
Failure of the Slidell Mission 348 John Slidell was a minister assigned by Polk to politely and
peacefully buy the Texas territory. Uh yeah that went well. The Mexican government didn’t meet
with the guy.
Opposition to the War 349 America had provoked Mexico into starting a war over Texas, and
many people were against the Mexican American war. Many people claimed that Polk had
deliberately provoked Mexico into fighting, and other people argued that the Northwest was a
bigger problem, as there might be a war with Britain (see compromise over Oregon). Others
saw the casualties and horrors of the war and opposed the war on moral grounds. People saw
this as a precedent for the President being able to declare war on anyone for any reason.
Bear Flag Revolution 349 In California, Stephen W Kearny third partied Mexico and some
American Settlers that were led by John C Fremont. Kearny helped organize the scattered
Americans into a pretty decent military and drove Mexico out of California. Keep in mind Mexico
is still fighting over Texas, so this is a pretty crippling defeat.
Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo 350 This treaty pretty much officiated the American Victory over
Mexico, with Mexico losing a TON of land (pretty much everything west of Texas) to America.
America in turn paid a paltry sum of $15 million dollars (nothing compared to the value of the
land). This treaty also sparked some internal conflict over the status of the new territories as
slave or non slave states.
Wilmot Proviso 351 During the Mexican American War, David Wilmot proposed the Abolition of
Slavery in all new Territories acquired from Mexico. This didn’t pass, but it was heavily debated
in the House and Senate.



[PAGE 107]

Competing Plans 351 Many people had plans to try and fix the slavery debate, such as
extending the Missouri Compromise, or the idea of Popular Sovereignty (letting the people
decide). The debate on these proposals dragged on, so no real progress was really made
during Polk’s presidency.
Free Soil Party 351 A Political Party that was created and supported Anti Slavery. That’s it. The
book compares them to the Know Nothings???? The Racist group????? What?????
FORTY NINERS 351 In California, a major surge of immigration occurred due to the discovery
of Gold in California. The California Gold Rush led to over 220,000 people moving to California
in search of GOLD! The gold rus immigrants were known as Forty-Niners and they abandoned
everything to try and strike it rich. The Gold Rush also attracted a large number of Chinese
Immigrants, These Chinese immigrants often ended up filling up the jobs left behind by people
trying to find gold.
Indian Slavery 352 During the Gold Rush, many people took it upon themselves to either
murder or enslave all the Native Americans in California. Good on them! (This is sarcasm)
Sectional Conflict over Slavery in the Territories 353 With California and New Mexico entering
the Union as free states (by the influence of President Zachary Taylor), one thing that should be
noted however, is that these 2 states became free states out of their own volition and made the
decision to outlaw slavery on their own(again, with influence from President Zach Taylor). This
of course, heavily angered the White southerners in support of slavery. This imbalance in free
and slave states resulted in a lot of sentiment supporting succession from the union in Southern
states.
Clay’s Proposed Solution 353 An aging Henry Clay proposed to have multiple policies made to
subdue the anger from (mainly the white slave-owning southerners) the American people which
would hopefully allow both sides to reach a compromise. He proposed to have California
admitted as a free state, while the rest of the land gained from the Mexican American war to be
split into territories(important to note, NOT STATES! Remember, only states have the ability to
allow or disallow slavery, territories are in complete control of the government) that would have
no restrictions on slavery. Clay then proposed to have the slave trade abolished (but not
slavery) in DC.
These proposals incited mass conflict in congress, and some important stuff to note here is just
that some old dying John C Calhoun was very in favor of ideas that supported Southern
independence on laws regarding slavery, such as telling the North to stop “attacking slavery”.
In the end, the Clay proposal proved unsuccessful and congress moved on.
NEw Leadership 353 What we see happening in this era of the US is a change in the generation
of politicians running the country. For example: William Seward, a 49 year old who was really
into eliminating slavery (LFG), Jefferson Davis, 42, who was on the opposite spectrum of



[PAGE 108]

Seward (Southern cotton plantation owner), and Stephen Douglas, a 37 year old who was really
into the construction of infrastructure connecting the US coast to coast.
Temporary Compromise 354 These newer politicians(see NEw Leadership) were able to reach
a compromise, in which Stephen Douglas brought up the idea of breaking up Clay’s Proposal
into different bills, and allowing everybody to vote on them instead. This was to be called the
The Compromise of 1850 (super creative holy shit man), and was signed by current president
Millard Fillmore. (Zach Taylor died of a tummy bug)
Opposition to the Fugitive Slave Act 355 In 1850 and the years leading up to it, a common
problem in the North was the many Southerners rushing up into Northern homes to try to claim
formerly enslaved people to kidnap them back onto Southern plantations. This angered
Northerners a ton, and as a result the Fugitive Slave Act was put in the crosshairs for allowing
these unjust attacks to happen. This opposition also angered Southerners, after all, why should
Northerners disallow Southerners from barging onto properties and searching for people that
were free just to drag them back into bondage?
Ostend Manifesto 355 In 1854, the US attempted to buy Cuba from Spain which was very
unsuccessful on the US part, with the US constantly being pushed back from Spain’s diplomats.
A group of people associated with the US sent the leader of the efforts to take Cuba, Franklin
Pierce, a letter that basically gave the case that the US should just take Cuba by force. This was
leaked to the public, and angered Northerners as it meant that another most likely slave-legal
state was to enter the country.
One thing I wanna get out of the way real quick:
The textbook mentions that “The Kingdom of Hawaii agreed to join the US in 1854” IS
COMPLETELY FUCKING FALSE. The US annexed Hawaii, I myself am not sure what the
Hawaiian people thought of this (although we can kind of assume they were not huge fans). The
US then 40ish years later fucking incited a coup, overthrowing the Hawaiian government and
queen.
Transcontinental Railroad and Slavery 355 Infrastructure and communication became a big
problem as the US grew westward, and there was a growing urge for the US to do something to
connect the country coast to coast. Again, more discourse between the North and South.
Northerners liked the idea of bringing the rail network to Chicago, whereas Southerners liked
the idea of St Louis or New Orleans.
Gadsden Purchase 355 James Gadsden, sent by Jefferson Davis was sent to Mexican territory
to persuade Mexico to sell a strip of land that is now Arizona and New Mexico for only
10,000,000 that would allow for better usage of the Transcontinental Railroad that was being
built.
Might I add, the Transcontinental Railroad was basically 100% built by the efforts of Chinese
immigrants who came over to the US during the gold rush and Irish immigrants during the Great



[PAGE 109]

Potato Famine, yet those who get credit for the railroad’s construction to this day are still
basically just the White Americans who just oversaw the labor.
Kansas Nebraska Act 356 In an effort to make the Missouri Compromise line acceptable to
southerners, Douglas implemented “popular sovereignty.” In theory, the region could choose to
open itself to slavery. When the southern Democrats demanded more, Douglas allowed for them
to repeal the Missouri compromise. Douglas also split the area into Nebraska and Kansas, the
latter being more likely to become a slave state.
Birth of the Republican Party 356 eqeqeqeq (league of legends??) People in both major parties
who opposed Douglas’s bill began to call themselves Anti-Nebraska Democrats and
Anti-Nebraska Whigs. In 1854, they formed a new organization and named it the Republican
Party.
Pottawatomie Massacre 356 apparently google has a different spelling
Ok so Kansas right now is an absolute fuckfest because the government said “lets have the
people vote on the very delicate topic of slavery that we can’t decide in congress because it’s
gonna start a war”. Because people’s votes mattered so much right now, Kansas became a
battlefield where people fought and KILLED each other for their voting preferences (slavery or
non slavery). In addition, everyone was committing voter fraud because people are really
passionate about slavery. This is basically what Bloody Kansas is and if it isn’t on the quiz
i would be really disappointed.
Pottawatomie Massacre is John Brown killing a bunch of slave owners. But it is a PART of
Bloody Kansas, NOT Bloody Kansas itself.
John Brown is an extreme Abolitionist, who believes that it was God's will that he take it upon
himself to destroy slavery. He got a group of people (including his sons), and murdered a bunch
of slave owners who wanted to settle in Kansas. He like really fucked up the bodies as a
message to other slave owners who wanted to move in and settle. This led to even more
conflict in Kansas (fighting fighting), and a lot of discourse (who’s to blame for the violence?)
Preston Brooks and Charles Sumner 357 The pointedly sexual references made by Charles
Sumner and the viciousness of the speech enraged Andrew Butler’s nephew, Preston Brooks.
This shit escalated FAST. Several days after the speech, Brooks jumps Sumner with a heavy
cane. Sumner was at his desk, and he rose with such strength that he tore the desk from the
bolts holding it to the floor. Yeah pretty much Sumner got jumped, couldn’t do anything for the
next four years, and Brooks resigned and stood successfully for reelection.
Free Soil Ideology 357 Most white northerners came to believe that the existence of slavery was
dangerous not because of what it did to blacks but because of what it threatened to do to the
whites.



[PAGE 110]

Slave Power Conspiracy 357 According to this northern vision, the South was the antithesis of
democracy–a closed, static society, in which slavery preserved an entrenched aristocracy and in
which common whites had no
Pro Slavery Arguments OH YOU KNOW THIS IS GOING TO BE BAD - A bunch of people who
supported slavery brought together their views into documents called the Pro Slavery
Arguments. These arguments basically argued that slavery was good for everyone. They
describe how slavery is not evil but instead is positive good, and the enslaved people were
supposedly happy and it is good for the economy. It also argued that the African American
enslaved people were not able to take care of themselves and biologically inferior.
Kinda like a way to spread these false beliefs which could be the reason why spread of
information of abolitionist beliefs the real truth of slavery became such a big way to rebel against
slavery.
Election of 1856 358 -
Democratic Party – in this election had James Buchanan as their candidate because he was a
reliable politician but more importantly was an English Minister meaning he was not associated
with the events of “Bleeding Kansas”.
Republicans – had John C. Fremont who did not have any previous politcal record.
Native American/Know-Nothing Party – had Millard Fillmore who had an endorsment from the
remains of the Whigs
At the end Buchanan won but only slightly ahead from the other two. Although Buchanan won,
when he was president the economy was in distress and this strengthened the republican party
because many people believed that the financial problems were due to a democratic president.
Taney’s Sweeping Opinion 359 A case known as Scott vs Sanford involved a former enslaved
person named Dred Scott who had recently gotten his freedom when his slave owner, a former
US army surgeon, had died. John Sanford, brother to the newly widowed wife of the surgeon,
argued that he had ownership over Scott, and the case was taken to the Supreme Court. Chief
Justice Roger Taney argued that African Americans had no real citizenship and therefore no
Constitutional rights, and were therefore property. Thus, by allowing Scott to be free, that was a
violation of property. This argument became super popular in the court, and unfortunately Scott
was not granted his freedom.
Why does this case matter? This case reinforced to people at the time the idea that enslaved
people were property, and reinforced ideas that enslaved people also deserved no
Constitutional rights. 😬
Lecompton Constitution Rejected 359 In 1857, the Lecompton Convention took place in which
Kansas was admitted into the Union as a slave state, but when the Lecompton constitution was
given to voters, antislavery groups showed up and voted for anti slavery, winning the vote by
10,000. Still, this does not mean that the Lecompton Constitution was completely invalid, it only
told the government that the majority in Kansas did not like it. President Buchanan, a



[PAGE 111]

pro-slavery president pressured Congress to admit Kansas with the Lecompton Constitution as
it’s founding document. This proved unsuccessful, and Kansas would be admitted to the Union
as a free state later in 1861 after many southern states had seceded the Union.
Lincoln Douglass Debates 359 Abraham Lincoln, a relatively unknown Republican and Stephen
A Douglas, a prominent Northern Democrat would often have debates by the request of Lincoln
(as the large audience of Douglas would in turn give Lincoln publicity). This worked super in
favor of Lincoln, as Douglas would never waste a moment to ego some random backwoods
Republican, and Lincoln knew that no matter what he would gain a good following and therefore
expand his reach across the country.
Lincoln’s Position 359 Lincoln believed that slavery was morally incorrect and wrong, but never
spoke out against the lack of rights and mistreatment of African Americans in the US. In fact, he
had some pretty shitty ideas, such as the idea that African Americans and White Americans
should not live side by side in society. This would later change, as influence from Frederick
Douglass will lead to Lincoln becoming a lot more of a person who believes in the basic human
rights of all Americans.
John Brown’s Raid 360 Remember John Brown? The Guy from the massacre a few things
above? Well, he got really pissed about the whole Kansas thing and about slavery as a whole.
He got funding from some Abolitionists to start a slave rebellion in the south. He attacked and
captured a US arsenal in Virginia, but he failed to inspire the slaves to start a rebellion. Robert E
Lee pulls up and arrests Brown, and he gets executed. The South sees this event as a major
reason not to trust the North, as they thought Brown got funding from the Republicans
Divided Democrats 361
Disunion 361 After Lincoln wins the Election, South Caroline decides to nope out of the whole
United States thing going on right now. This created a domino effect of many southern States
leaving the union, and this kinda started the civil war.
Southern Nationalism 365 As soon as Lincoln got elected, many military leaders in the South
believed in their own southern nationalism, where they saw themselves as completely different
from their northern counterparts.
Establishment of the Confederacy 365 As South Carolina, mississippi, Florida, Alabama,
Georgia, Louisiana, and Texas leave the US, they form the Confederate States of America. At
the time, the North is kinda too shocked to really take action, and congress is fighting over
whether the states have the right to leave at all.
Crittenden Compromise 366 An attempt at getting Southern states to rejoin the Union, John J
Crittenden proposed the permanent existence of slavery and the permanent application of the
Missouri Compromise in return for the South rejoining the union. The Southern States seemed



[PAGE 112]

to accept the compromise, but Northern Republicans refused to agree to this compromise, as
this would go against their main principle of preventing the spread of slavery .
The War Begins 366 There was a Fort in South Carolina owned by the Federal Government
called Fort Sumter, and this fort is being surrounded by (recently created) Confederate soldiers.
Lincoln doesn’t want to surrender the fort, and sends a relief convoy to the fort. The
Confederates don’t want to look lame to the Federal Government, so they capture the Fort,
starting the Civil War.
Union Advantages 368 The Union has a LOT more people (almost double), and way better
infrastructure and industry compared to the South, which only really cared about cotton and
slavery.
Southern Advantages 368 Most battles were fought on Southern Territory that soldiers were
familiar with, and also the Confederates were a lot more committed to the War than the North,
where people were divided over whether to fight the war or not.
Republican Economic Policy 368 Since most of the South is now their own Confederacy now,
Congress is pretty much just Republicans now. Republicans decide that now is the time to grow
the economy, encouraging people to buy land and further education. They also invested into
greater infrastructure like more Railroads and new banks
National Bank Acts 369 The National Bank Acts created a new interconnected Banking system
where Preexisting banks can join by investing a third of their total capital in the Government. In
return, these banks can issue US Treasury currency. This helped create a uniform system of
bank notes usable all over the North.
Financing the War 369 War is expensive, and the North tried many ways to fund it. They tried
taxes, issuing lots of paper currency (more money is clearly the solution), and also borrowing
money. Everything had a lot of drawbacks, people were against taxes, and the paper currency
caused a decent amount of inflation because the new money was not backed by gold. The main
way the North made money was through selling Bonds
Draft Riots 370 (Huh) The Union needed people to fight in the war, so they started a draft
where all young men had to fight unless they could find a replacement or pay up. This caused
Riots, as many of the common people saw this war as a war for the rich paid for and fought for
by the poor. Many people died in riots because of these Drafts.
Wartime Repression 371 Lincoln took a lot of power during the war, and basically said “fuck it
we ball”. The war had a lot of opposition, but Lincoln did not give a damn about that. He ordered
the military to suppress dissenters and protesters against the war. He also used propaganda in
order to get people more excited and have a more positive opinion on the war. When lincoln
was up for reelection, a series of lucky victories in the South boosted Lincoln into reelection.



[PAGE 113]

Confiscation Acts 372 A group of laws that freed all confederate slaves fighting for the
Confederates. This was meant to demoralize and cripple Confederate armies and the South in
General.
Emancipation Proclamation 373 Lincoln’s official statement freeing all Slaves in Confederate
territories that haven’t been captured by the Union yet. Nice thought, but this doesn’t really do
much since it doesn’t apply to border states or UNCAPTURED confederate states so this
doesn’t apply that much.
Black Enlistment 376 The Union used a lot of Freed Slaves and African Americans in the Civil
War, as they boosted the Numbers of the Union armies greatly. Once the Emancipation
Proclamation came out, African American Enlistment skyrocketed.
Mistreatment of BLack Soldiers 376 However, these soldiers were pretty much used for hard
labor like digging trenches and transporting goods. African American Soldiers died a lot more
than White soldiers due to disease and hard working hours. They were also paid like 66% of
what a White Soldier was paid.
Hard Time For Workers 377 Due to the lack of resources from the South, and due to substantial
inflation that wages didn’t account for, the average worker had way less buying power. In
addition, new machines cut even more jobs that people needed.
US Sanitary Commission 377 Despite the official sounding name, it’s a volunteer organization
that had many female nurses help serve in Union field Hospitals. By 1900, Nursing had become
an all female occupation pretty much.
Traditional Gender Roles Reinforced 377 Female Nurses were kind of ignored by Male Doctors,
and the Sanitary Commission tried to use the Cult of Domesticity as reasoning for Female
Nurses to help in these Hospitals. They argued that since women were already so good at
housekeeping, cooking, and nursing, they should be able to help in the war.
Yeah this part sucks.
Nursing And Medicine 378 Nursing and medicine helped reduce deaths to disease during the
Civil war. However, Disease was still the leading cause of death in the Civil war, with even small
injuries becoming potentially fatal due to disease.
Davis’s Leadership 378 The Confederate Government is kind of a shitshow, because their
president Jefferson Davis is kind of a NERD. He doesn’t really do much and doesn’t really step
up or do anything notable during this very notable time period.
SOuthern Divisions 378 Many people in the South still refused to follow the Confederate
Government, and many people criticized the government for things going bad, even more so as
the Confederacy starts to lose hard.



[PAGE 114]

Funding Problems 379 If the Union has some bad financial problems, the confederacy has
some BAD financial problems.Most of the States didn’t tax their citizens, and also the economy
is in shambles because of the whole “Strong States, weak Central Government” Thing. So you
got like 8 different states producing different currencies. In addition, these states are printing a
TON of money and nobody knows whats worth how much and stuff.
To put this in perspective, the price of stuff in the North rose like 80% yikes!
Prices in the South rose 9000 % uh oh…
Raising the Confederate Army 379 The Confederacy also had the “get people to fight in the war”
problem, and they also instituted a Draft. They had the same “common vs elite” problem, as
people who owned 20 or more slaves got out of the draft.
Manpower Shortage 379 The South has a people shortage, and the government tries everything
from broadening the draft to conscripting slaves (that would have been a massive L but the war
ended before this could happen).
Centralization 380 By the End of the war, the Confederate Government was strong enough to
not implode. They tried using a “food draft” to feed their soldiers, which basically let soldiers
take food from farms they pass by. This is going to end well. (no it won’t).
People are still believing in the “states rights over feds” thing though so the central government
really has like no power.
Economic Woes 380 The Southern Economy is in shambles. Nobody is able to farm cotton
since everyone is fighting, and the lack of railroads is really putting the Southern Economy in the
EconomyShredder 3000™ . In addition, the North is putting its efforts into destroying the already
really really bad Southern Infrastructure. As the war continues, the South finds itself in an
everything shortage, food, economic power, medicine, skilled workers, everything.
There started to be riots over food and taxation, and black markets popped up to try and keep
people alive and not starving.
New Roles for WOmen 380 because all the Men in the South are busy dying and fighting the
war, Women had a lot more power since someone has to keep the plantation alive. The Wives
of slave owners often became responsible for managing slaves, and often had to work on the
fields themselves. This led to many questioning the strict Patriarchy of the South, as women
found out they were in fact Capable of handing the jobs that men did.
Lincoln’s Leadership 381 Although Lincoln does not have much military experience (only in the
Black Hawk War) he was forced to take a larger role in strategy since his generals didn’t; This
forced him to continuously replace his generals until he landed on Ulysses S. Grant (later 18th
pres.). Lincoln took advantage of the fact that the Union had more resources and numbers than



[PAGE 115]

the south. Lincoln also targeted the destruction of the Confederate Army rather than the
southern territories.
Robert E Lee 382 Lee was the general appointed for the Conferate army by the Confederate
President Davis. Lee leaves soon after to go command forces in the field leaving Davis to
stratagize alone.
The Union Blockade 383 The Union Blockade was a strategy to attempt to block the
Confederacy’s Access to trade. Although it was never 100% effective it still made a large impact
on the South. By 1865 the Union had successfully captured all important ports
Ironclads 383 - Like battleships, but not really! THe Confederacy tried to break through the
Union blockades with iron-clad ships. However, the Union already had a lot of Ironclads and met
the Confederates with a stalemate, forcing the Confederacy to back off. The Confederacy would
never meet the Union’s sheer naval power.
King Cotton Diplomacy 383 The South tried to gain the favor of European Allies through cotton,
but at this point the South has exported so much damn cotton that Europe had an extreme
surplus of cotton and could afford to just… not buy cotton. In addition, Europe has other cooler
places to get cotton from like Egypt, or India. Also Europeans didn’t want to deal with the
Union’s naval blockade so there was that as well.
Trent affair 383 So some Confederates break through the blockade and make it to Cuba, and
board an English boat headed to England. Charles WIlkes, a Union captain, jumps the boat and
arrests the Confederate Diplomats, which pisses off England since they were on an English
ship. The Union stalls for a bit and then releases a non apology pretty much.
Guerilla War in the West 384 In more western States like Kansas, it was pretty much an all out
war, with groups of Slavery supporters jumping everyone , and also Slavery haters jumping
everyone a little less. THe Border States of Kansas and Missouri had a lot of deaths during the
Civil war.
High Casualties 385 A LOT of people died in the Civil war, almost more than 4x any other war
that the US has fought. About 618,000 in fact. yikes…
Repeating Weapons 385 Repeating weapons like Revolvers or rifles caused a lot more deaths,
as people didn’t have to reload after shooting 1 bullet anymore. In addition, Cannons and
Artillery got a lot better at exploding and causing a lot of damage.
The new meta for war was staying low to the ground and taking cover. Trench Warfare was
starting to kinda become a thing.



[PAGE 116]

Importance of the Railroad 387 Railroads were vital to fighting the War, as they were able to
quickly transport large numbers of soldiers and resources to places. Since Railroad Stations
were unable to move for some reason (wonder why), They also became important locations for
armies to hold and control.
The Telegraph (again) 387 The telegraph was used, but not really since nobody really knew how
to use the telegraph still. It was still used, and spies learned to tap into telegraph lines, but the
textbook ends there so like oh well.
First Battle of Bull Run 387 On July 21 1861 (i put the year here), The first Battle of Bull Run
was almost a Union victory, but the Confederates were able to regroup into a counterattack. The
North was exhausted due to the what at this point, and started to panic and retreat. McDowell
(union general) tried to reorganize and regroup, but everyone is dipping at this point. In addition,
there are a bunch of civilians here who wanted to watch the battle from a distance like a damn
basketball game. That must have been traumatizing for little timmy.
This battle severely lowered Union Morale and was a sign to Lincoln of the long and arduous
war he was about to lead.
Wilson’s Creek 388 Union General Nataniel Lyon tried to take part of Missouri but was defeated
and killed in battle. However, he had crippled the Confederate Army, and the Union was able to
take a decent amount of Missouri due to his sacrifice.
New Orleans Captured 388 IN April of 1862, THe Union was able to take New Orleans because
the Union came from the south and not the North like the Confederacy expected. This was a
turning point, as New Orleans was one of the only Major trading areas the Confederacy had, so
the economy was in shambles x2. It also gave the North control over the entrance to the
Mississippi River so uh oh south.
Shiloh 388 (Like the dynasty??) Ulysses S. Grant was taken by surprise in Shiloh Tennessee
when Albert Sidney Johnston and P. G. T. Beauregard attacked him and his army, inciting the
Battle of Shiloh which lasted from April 6-7, resulting in a Union retreat until an extra 25,000
troops were sent to Grant, and he and his army managed to take back Shiloh. This victory
snowballed into Union control of Corinth Mississippi, a railroad hub in the South, allowing them
better control of the area.
George McCllellan 388 George McClellan was the commander/general of the Army of Potomac,
and was well known for his proficiency in training and preparing troops. However, it’s really hard
to put these talents to use if you never fight in the first place. Which you can assume by my
wording here that he never did. This assumption would be correct, as McClellan was notorious
for not taking advantage of opportunities and this results in a lot of slow progress.
McClellan was mostly well known for his failure versus Thomas Jackson, as he decided to
attack Richmond, thinking that as long as Richmond was under attack, he would not have to



[PAGE 117]

worry about the safety of Washington. This was a mistake, as Jackson started to move towards
Washington as soon as this attack happened, but it was a decoy meant to draw out troops away
from Washington, and Jackson then fought 2 armies at the same time, defeating them both,
thus earning him that “Stonewall” nickname.
Seven Pines 391 As you remember, McClellan was attacking Richmond. To meet him at
Richmond was Joseph E. Johnston, who met his army at Seven Pines. Johnston was then
replaced by Robert E Lee (Johnston got injured). Lee’s plan was to cut off McClellan from the
sea, but McClellan managed to fight his way to the coast, allowing himself navy support.
McClellan now had clear sights to attack Richmond, just 25 miles away. However, as classic
McClellan goes, he found even more reason to delay the operation over and over again,
resulting in Lincoln recalling McClellan and having General John Pope meet him on the way
there to continue the offensive from there.
Antietam 391 Robert E Lee began to move up through Maryland, hoping to catch McClellan’s
retreating force by surprise. McClellan was lucky enough to get a copy of these plans and
immediately set out to meet Lee with preparation. The plans also revealed that Jackson was
splitting away from Lee and leading an army to take Harper Ferry. McClellan, being the fucking
coward he is decided that instead of taking Jackson, who expected little to no resistance by
surprise, he would instead delay the offensive and give Lee ample time to get ready a force at
Antietam Creek. The battle that ensued was one of the bloodiest in the war, with 5,000 dying
and 17,000 injured. McClellan, who had man advantage decided to instead of chasing down
Lee’s army instead opted to let Lee and his men retreat. Although the battle was won, it could
have proven to be such a larger victory than it was in reality.
Battle of Chancellorsville 392 bruh who makes these dumb ass names Joseph Hooker, now the
commander of the Army of Potomac(Union) headed for Fredericksburg and Lee’s army. What
ensued was the Battle of Chancellorsville, in which Thomas Jackson and Robert E Lee
surrounded the Union army from the front and right, defeating the Union despite being
outnumbered. Hooker luckily escaped with his army intact, and damage was still caused to the
Confederates, with General Jackson dying and Robert E Lee unable to catch the fleeing
Hooker.
Vicksburg 392 All of this doom and gloom was happening in the East, where incompetent Union
generals constantly got fucked by Robert E Lee and General Jackson (a lot of the reason why
Robert E Lee is considered a “miliatry genius” is really just because of the lack of competence
of these generals, not the individual skill of Lee). In the West, Ulysses S Grant was going
literally fucking dicko mode on the Confederates.
In 1863, Ulysses S Grant strolled into Vicksburg Mississippi, and flanked the military stronghold
there, setting in for siege. When the civilians in the city were fully starved of rations, the city
finally surrendered to Grant’s barrage of fire.



[PAGE 118]

This victory is SUPER important for the Union, because it allows for the Confederate South to
be split into 2 (meaning that to get stuff from West to East you need to pass through land that is
controlled by the Union).
Gettysburg 393 One of the most famous names in the entirety of the Civil War, Robert E Lee
argued that the Confederate troops be sent into Northern soil, specifically in Pennsylvania. Lee
followed with this plan, leading his troops into Gettysburg, where the Army of Potomac, this time
led by George C. Meade, awaited him. This battle was one of the bloodiest to happen in
American history, with the infamous Pickett’s Charge, a charge of 15,000 Confederate troops
resulting in the casualties of 10,000 Confederate troops. By the first couple days, Lee had lost a
third of his army and on July 4th, Lee withdrew from Gettysburg. This was a crucial victory for
the Union since not only did it reduce the Confederate army by a massive amount, but the short,
270ish word speech that would be given by the President of the United States would mark a
turning point in the idea of Civil Rights in the nation of America. (Gettysburg Address)
Battle of Chattanooga 394 bruhhhhhhhhh After taking Chattanooga, the Union forces led by
William Rosecrans began a pursuit of Confederate general Bragg and his forces. Knowing this,
Bragg set up right on the border of Georgia, this time with reinforcements. The battle that would
ensue would be called the Battle of Chickamauga and a defeat for the Union would ensue. The
union backed up to Chattanooga, where Big Dawg Ulysses S Grant would come to the rescue
and drive the Confederates back into Georgia, resulting in another massive victory for the
Union. With this victory, the Confederacy had lost hope, money, and too much man power to
keep going.
Grant’s Strategy 394 Despite Ulysses S Grant winning many battles for the Union and being the
ultimate cause of military success for the Union, Grant’s strategies can not be considered as the
most…decisive. I love this guy a lot, but his strategies often involved brute forcing his way
through Confederate lines with a huge numbers advantage, and as a result a lot of American
blood was shed on the side of the Union just as the casualties on the Confederate side. Still, he
had his moments of genius, and showed unorthodox methods especially in the northern
campaign in which Grant’s armies would often retreat by basically running into the wilderness to
prevent Lee’s army from pursuing or they could be easily jumped. This section goes on for ages,
you can read it yourself to be honest.
Capture of Atlanta 396 General Sherman(Union) confronted General Johnston led forces at
Kennesaw Mountain, just North of Atlanta, where Johnston won against an army 30,000
stronger than his, but did not deter General Sherman, who took Atlanta on September second.
This victory is also a super important one because once news of it got home, the war, which
was pretty unpopular at this point in the North due to the losses in lives, rejuvenated the
motivation to keep fighting and for the Republican cabinet to be united and support President
Lincoln.
March to the Sea 396 Sherman kept on going once he hit Atlanta though, starting his famous
March to the Sea. Sherman had his troops live off the land and destroy supplies so that any



[PAGE 119]

armies attempting to capture Sherman would be deterred, and as a result managed to destroy a
large portion of Confederate infrastructure, punching a huge hole in the Confederate economy
and therefore war effort. This also destroyed Southern morale to keep supporting the
Confederate army.
Appomattox Court House 397 General Grant’s Army of Potomac finally managed to capture a
railroad junction town near Petersburg, and without control of the rail network, Robert E Lee was
forced to surrender Richmond, attempting to move west so that maybe he could escape the
Union army by going around them. Grant managed to catch Lee’s army and with that, Lee
surrendered his army and in a decently nice house in Appomattox Court House(yes, this is the
name of a town, not a court house lmao). Later, General Johnston would do the same,
surrendering his troops to General Sherman.
The Impact of the North’s Victory 397 Of course, the North’s victory meant the destruction of the
Confederate Army and would lead to the Confederacy joining the Union of the United States,
but it also greatly strengthened the Northern economy, allowing for Industry and Railroad
development to boom, while the South’s planting economy was destroyed as the young male
population and the land was utterly gone. This brought the US in the direction of industry, as
now the economic growth of plantations would no longer be able to match that of the Industrial
economy in the North. However, far and away the most important victory (and perhaps the most
important victory in the entire US history, I would argue) was the freeing of the millions of
Africans Americans from bondage, and with Abraham Lincoln’s Emancipation Proclamation
bringing officially supported Civil Rights to the US(as in, public support from the President in
favor of the basic human rights of African Americans in the US), the US now headed into a new
age.
READING QUIZ#9 INFO ENDS HERE
The Devastated South 400 The South was in utter ruins. Plantations were destroyed,
infrastructure trashed and now White planters now had to work the fields without free labor.
Confederate money had lost all of its value, and the male population that was once readily
available for hard labor was now completely decimated.
Myth of the Lost Cause 400 “The Lost Cause” refers to the fact that all the 258,000 Confederate
soldiers who died in the war were part of a war they could never win(true, Grant solos).
Southerners vehemently almost…worshiped(?) Confederate figures such as Robert E. Lee,
Jackson, and Jefferson Davis, and monuments, statues, and things were made in honor of
these figures. The part that really sucks about this is that these structures are still up today, and
people still defend not tearing them down as it is “history” (mind you, history that is not history of
the US, but the Confederacy, which is NOT the US).
:3



[PAGE 120]

Tic tac toe? O
X O
O O X
X X
ggez
cheater. mods ban this man. and give him the flu or something too as well.
:>
Freedom for the Ex-Slaves 401 For African Americans, the idea of freedom came in many
different forms. Pretty much everyone believed that they deserved the same rights as other
citizens, but the way they got those rights was a debated topic. Some wanted land as restitution,
while others simply wanted legal equality. Others wanted more opportunities for work. As soon
as emancipation occurred, many former slaves created their own communities and worked
together to rebuild.
The Freedmen’s Bureau 402 A government institution that kept troops in the south to ensure the
abolition of slavery, and also to help support the Millions of former slaves with things like getting
jobs and education. The Freedman’s Bureau was only a thing for a year, and it was too small
and underfunded to really fix any problems.
Conservative and Radical Republicans 403 In the Republican Party, there are divisions on the
way the Country is gonna do the whole Reconstruction thing. Conservatives just wanted the
SOuth to abolish slavery, while the Radicals such as Charles Sumner wanted that the South be
actively punished for their rebellion. They suggested that the South’s voting power should be
limited and that the government should put efforts in to enforce racial equality. Why is this so
radical? Idk man.
Lincoln’s 10% plan 403 Lincoln was more conservative, as his goal was to get the Country back
together again ASAP. Lincoln suggested that as long as Slavery is abolished and 10% of voters
promise to be good citizens again, the South can rejoin.
In My Personal Opinion™ this is the worst fucking plan ever like… making 10% of people just
PROMISE to be good is going to do nothing.
Wade Davis Bill 403 Radical Republicans saw Lincoln’s plan and thought it was lame as hell, so
they created the Wade Davis Bill, which authorized the president to appoint governors for
conquered states. When each conquered state had a majority of the people pledge their
allegiance, they could put a convention together to elect people who didn’t participate on the
confederate side.
The Bill also wanted these new state governments to abolish slavery, remove voting rights for
high ranking Confederates and stuff like that.



[PAGE 121]

Bill was vetoed xd lmao.
Also Lincoln’s dead now. He died on April 14, 1865 from a shot to the back of the head.
Andrew Johnson’s Personality 404 Andrew Johnson was a Democrat and was a pretty angry
guy overall. He had a lot of insecurities and grudges. He was also a racist so that was a
problem for the whole reconstruction thing. Johnson was sympathetic with the south and helped
get them their land and rights back… wow.
Northern Attitudes Harden 404 Radical Republicans were not happy with Andrew Johnson and
Northerners became a lot more hostile towards the South. Many Northerners were angry with
the slow abolition of Slavery and the refusal by the South to grant freed slaves their rights. Many
Northerners were also pissed that Georgia literally elected Confederate VICE PRESIDENT
Alexander Stephens as a senator.
Johnson’s veto 405 Congress was mad at the establishment of Black Codes and passed bills
that would make the Freedmen's Bureau more powerful. Johnson vetoed them but Congress
was able to override the vetoes.
Citizenship for Blacks 405 THe 14th Amendment stated that all people born in the US was
automatically a full citizen with ALL the rights and privileges extended to citizens. The
Amendment also imposed penalties on States that would restrict the voting rights of male
citizens.
Congress let any Southern State that ratified the 14th Amendment join back, but only
Tennessee did so.
Three Reconstruction Bills 406 Congress was able to establish 3 bills that would plan out
Reconstitution. Every Former Confederate State (minus Tennessee since they joined already)
would be put under military control in 5 zones. The people in control of these zones would figure
out who could vote (all men who didn’t fight as a confederate) and then have them vote on a
new constitution and stuff. States would also have to ratify the 14th (and 15th for Texas and
Virginia since they were so slow to join) Amendment.
Fifteenth Amendment 406 This amendment forbade states to deny suffrage to citizens on
account of Race, Color, or Previous Condition of Servitude.
To get this through, Congress passed some pretty interesting (unconstitutional? probably)laws
that prevented the President from removing cabinet members without Senate approval. (to
Protect Edwin M Stanton who was allied with the Radical Republicans.) The other law
prevented the president from issuing Military Orders unless he went through the Commanding
General, who conveniently was now also only allowed to be fired by the Senate



[PAGE 122]

Tenure of Office Act 407 Johnson Kicked out Stanton (which went against that one bill
mentioned directly above). Radicals jumped on this moment to try and Impeach Johnson. It
does not go well.
Johnson Acquitted 407 Moderate Republicans who were becoming less thrilled with the
Radicals voted to Acquit Johnson. Yup. That’s it.
Scalawags 408 YARRR WHO ELSE BE FOLLOWING THE PIRATE CODE ryan this is not a
pirate term (._. ) clearly yifei is not a pirate.
Scalawag is a term for Southern White Republicans, basically those in the south that weren’t
that big on slavery and supported Republicans more than Democrats.
Carpetbaggers 408 An insulting term used for Northernern Republicans who moved into the
south, named after the cheap type of bag that many people pictured these Northerners using.
However, most of the people moving are middle class lawyers, teachers, and doctors. Many
were Union Veterans.
Freedmen 408 Many freed Slaves became politically active, creating their own conventions and
joining the Republican Party (most of the time). Most of the time these conventions would call
for equal rights and stuff. In addition, many towns and Churches were created by Freedmen to
support each other. African Americans would also begin serving in government more.
Of Course, many white Southerners weren’t too happy with the rising political power of freed
slaves, and claimed that African Americans would create a “Negro Rule” over their states.
(textbook’s words not mine)
Segregated Schools 409 OOPS! Turns out a highly racist South does not want equal treatment
regardless of race. The Educational system began to become segregated due to pure racism
alone. White Southerners refused to be schooled in the same places as African Americans. The
Freedmen's bureau tried making schools that all races could learn in, but White Southerners just
ignored these schools.
Failure of Land Redistribution 410 The Freedmen’s bureau took a big L because of Johnson.
The Freedmen’s Bureau had redistributed a significant amount of land to the newly Freed
Slaves, and over 10,000 families now had their own land. However, political and economic
pressure from the South led to Johnson forcing the Freedmen’s Bureau to return all the land to
white plantation owners.
Sharecropping 410 A New System where white landowners rented out land to African
Americans, who were expected to pay with a percentage of their crops. The main benefit of this
is that Former slaves get to work on their own, and Landowners now don’t have to worry about
workers’ wellbeing (like they did at all textbook).



[PAGE 123]

The textbook says this system was a good thing, but I doubt it given the rest of the book’s
questionable opinions.
NEw SYstem of Credit 411 Everyone in the South is kinda poor because of the March to the
Sea and stuff, so General Stores became important because a lot of stores couldn’t stock up on
tough stuff. Many General Stores turned to credit for people to get their stuff, and charged like
50% interest jesus christ.
So like imagine being broke and then buying a box of cereal from Walgreens with credit
And then you are in debt to Walgreens.
And if you don’t pay interest like doubles…
Changing Gender Roles 412 As reconstruction was hard on just about everybody, especially
newly freed African American families, there was a large demand for just about any able bodied
person to start working. In particular, women, and specifically African American women started
to enter the workforce due to this demand and as such moved away from the more
home-centric role they once played in families.
Ulysses S. Grant 412 After seeing the demographics of republican and democratic voters in the
U.S, Grant attempted to run for president in 1868 for the Republican party. With the help of the
newly enfranchised African American population, Grant garnered over 500,000 extra votes,
winning over former New York governor Horatio Seymour. As much as we love Ulysses S.
Grant, his political ventures are…more than lackluster. Grant didn’t really know what he was
doing and made full use out of the Spoils system once used by Andrew Jackson and was known
for the corruption in his cabinet and administration. Thankfully, we can remember him not as a
president but a leading factor to winning the Civil War.
Liberal Republicans 412 Grant’s political inadequacy led to a party of Republicans that started to
get fed up with their nominee and “Grantism”, causing them to start the “Liberal Republican”
movement/party/basketball team/book club and also to nominate Horace Greeley, an…editor for
the New York Tribune… Greeley was also nominated by the Democratic party, but in the end,
Grant was reelected in 1872 with a large majority.
Credit Mobilier 412
READING QUIZ#10 INFO STARTS HERE



[PAGE 124]

Panic of 1873 413 - After Jay Cooke and Company invested way too much into the railroad
infrastructure, it failed, and thus - banks became an untrustworthy source which then led to a
domino effect of banks collapsing all around! Debtors wanted the gov to redeem war bonds with
“greenbacks” - currency printed during the Civil War to increase money circulation. However,
Grant wanted a currency based on gold (and greenback was $356 mil in circulation). He tried
crushing the greenback dollar by passing the Specie Resumption Act - redeeming greenback
dollar for gold. This satisfied creditors but worried debtors because gold-based money could not
easily expand.
National Greenback Party 413 - “Greenbackers” formed their own political organization. Active
in the next 3 presidential elections. Kept the money issue alive but it failed to gain support.
Seward’s Folly 413 - William H. Seward fuckin hates President Johnson and decides to accept
Russian’s offer to sell Alaska for $7.2 mil. Lots of Americans didn’t like Alaska cuz it was just
cold with some random bears, so they called it “Seward’s Folly”.
Alabama Claims 413 - Hamilton FISH wanted to resolve the controversy with England over
American claims that the brits had violated neutrality laws during the civil war by allowing
English shipyards to build ships for the confeds. Americans said that the English should pay for
the damage those ships caused - known as the Alabama Claims! In 1871, FISH forms the
Treaty of Washington, which provided a court case (ARBITRATION) where Britain gets sad and
expresses their regret for the escape of the CSS Alabama Ship from England. (According to
textbook)
From Google: Britain ends up paying the americans 15.5 mil USD.
Ku Klux Klan 414 oh no.
A Secret Society that worked to enforce a Democrat Majority in the south that also worked to
disenfranchise African Americans. The KKK would be formed in 1866 be led by former
Confederate Nathan Bedford Forrest. It quickly absorbed many smaller white supremacy groups
and became a big elaborate organization. The Klan ran many “Midnight rides” of men in white
masks and sheets to terrorize African American Communities.
The overall public perception of the KKK was positive by many White Southerners, who saw
them as a patriotic group.
And then of course the Textbook proceeds to downplay the impact of the KKK, saying that
Economic Power(basically businesses refusing to serve and employ African Americans) was
more effective than the KKK at discouraging African American involvement in politics.
Enforcement Acts 414 LAws also known as the KKK Acts that prohibited States from
discriminating against voters on the basis of race. It also gave the Federal Government power to
overpower state courts and prosecute people who didn’t follow with the no discriminating thing.



[PAGE 125]

It also gave the President Power to use the Military to protect Civil Rights, something that was
actually used in 1871 in South Carolina.
Many Klan Members were tried, but few were actually convicted.
The Decline of the Klan 414 YIPPEE!
The Klan kind of had a skill issue after the Enforcement Acts and pretty much went into decline
afterward. They were still active, but their terror had hit the relative maximum on their terror
graph.
Impact of Social Darwinism 415 If you remember from AP Modern World History, Social
Darwinism was the idea that unemployed or unsuccessful simply had a dandori issue and were
inferior people. This idea of Darwinism made a lot of people view the poor African Americans as
a bunch of lazy criminals, which was pretty darn harsh. This stigma led to a cycle of poverty as
not many were willing to support African Americans due Social Darwinism.
Hayes vs Tilden 415 Following the unsuccessful Ulysses S. Grant presidency, the Republican
party decided to choose Rutherford B. Hayes, as their candidate, while the Democratic party
decided on Samual J. Tilden. Both were committed to more moderate reforms, leaning more in
the conservative direction.
Tilden had a nearly 300,000 popular vote lead, but in terms of electoral votes, Tilden had 184
votes which was actually one short of majority. It all came down to Louisiana, South Carolina,
Florida, and Oregon, who combined had 20 disputed votes(basically undetermined votes).
Special Electoral Commission 415 Congress stepped in to try and decide for the 20 disputed
votes(See Hayes Vs. Tilden), and what they proposed and ended up doing was a meeting in
which 5 senators, 5 reps, and 5 supreme court justices from both political party would show up
to dispute the result of the election with 1 independent(undecided) justice, who was really a
pro-Republican and as such, Hayes was inaugurated into the position of US President on March
4th.
Compromise of 1877 416 Basically, during this whole Hayes vs Tilden thing politicians from both
sides of the Country were meeting to try and figure out how they would swiftly end the debate
on the election basically as soon as the political deadlock began. What ended up happening
was Democratic politicians agreed for the election of Hayes as long as the Republican party
promised to get American troops out of the South. This is ironic because Hayes was already
planning to withdraw the troops in the first place. Along with this one, there were some other
smaller requests such as the requirement of one Southerner in Hayes’s cabinet, “general
internal improvements” whatever that means, and federal aid for Texas and the Pacific
Railroad(basically money into infrastructure, don’t think that needed to be vouched for but
whatever).
Republican Failure in the south 417 Hayes was already pretty unpopular since just about
everybody knew how exactly he was elected, even his promise of only serving one term pissed

