[PAGE 126]

people off. Hayes attempted some moderate acceptance of African American rights, but mostly
failed since, well, they were unpopular with the White majority in the South. In addition, the
withdrawal of troops in the South means that there is now no way for the new laws implemented
by Hayes to be truly enforced there, and the biggest problem in the South just so happens to be
the issues of reconstruction…and African American rights. You can see what I’m getting at here
:|
Ideological Limits 417 As the next 100 years stretch on, we will see the issue of racial injustice
being the forefront of the US, even after the abolishment of slavery. This is in part due to the
massive amount of adversity that those who supported the idea of a racially equal US would
have to face. The ideals of racism had been deeply ingrained in the US, and most people in the
country wouldn’t give a second to think about giving a chance to fixing racial injustice in the US.
Bourbon Rule 418 Hayes’ withdrawal of the military left many Southerners excited about the
return of their “Home Rule”, which was far from reality. In reality, the South was once again
under the rule of a powerful conservative oligarchy known as the “Bourbons” (or Redeemers.
This oligarchy was mostly merchants and people who got rich off of the railroads, and were
often corrupt and were very keen on concentrating power and money into their small circle. As
such, Reconstruction was greatly slowed down. Tax money began to flow less and less towards
infrastructure, and schools were even considered “not a necessity”.
THe Readjuster Challenge 418 A lot of people were able to notice this corruption in power of the
Southern upper class, and one of these groups were known as the “Readjusters”, who in
Virginia began their, well, “readjustment”, gaining a large following of mostly lower income White
folk and a fair number of African Americans. Their main argument was that the state had been
using debt payments in the wrong areas, and that they should instead opt to have the money go
into state services. Unfortunately, this movement was quickly put down using the power of racial
prejudice. Textbook says nothing more.
Henry Grady 419 Some Southerners concluded that the South needed Industrialization, and
that because the Southern economy had been so weak due to the lack of Industrialization, the
South was unable to win the Civil War. These people supported this idea of a “New South”, one
that would “out-Yankee the Yankees”. Henry Grady, an editor for the Atlanta Constitution was
one of these. The textbook says nothing about Henry Grady himself besides this, but I think it is
important to note that this ideal was not very popular with the vast majority of the South. Many
Southerners looked fervently in the direction of the Old South/Antebellum period and
romanticized the idea of the Lost Cause and, of course, slavery.
Railroad Development 419 Southern industry, although still lagging behind their Northern
counterparts(obviously) began to see the largest industrial growth it had ever seen before. The
Textile industry grew by nearly 10 times, thanks to the development of water power that was
present in the South and the cheap labor available along with low taxes. Railroads were also
developed from 1880-90, integrating itself into the Northern railroad system as well. This seems
all cool and all until you realize that 10*0 is still 0 (Me when math) , so in reality, not much was



[PAGE 127]

done, and all that really happened was that the effects of the Civil War were reversed and the
South had returned to its pre-war state(infrastructure wise).
Convict Lease System 420 Reconstruction and infrastructure projects were both super labor
heavy, and only certain industries offered labor to African Americans, which in my opinion is
really dumb since it is readily available labor but whatever. This was made up for by the “Convict
Lease system” in which groups of prisoners were “leased” to businesses with…0 pay… Along
with this, these convicts often worked the most dangerous tasks with little to no breaks or
reprise, leading many to painful deaths.
Tenants and Sharecropping Thanks the aforementioned Bourbon rule, most land was also
concentrated into a small group of the super rich. These people would often allow people to live
on their land and farm it as long as they paid annual rent or, in most cases, sharecrop, which
basically has the landlords taking a portion of the annual income from the tenants. Tenants were
given nothing more than a shitty house, a small plot of land and maybe a mule if they were
lucky.
Black Middle Class 421 A number of African Americans were able to make it in the South during
reconstruction, starting businesses or entering skilled professions. These African Americans
adopted more white middle class family habits such as dressing nicely and uh…basically just do
anything that anybody else would honestly. I don’t have a clue why the textbook makes such a
big deal about this. Like do you think lower class people in general can dress nice in the first
place?
Booker T Washington 422 African Americans that had just been freed believed in the idea that
education was the key to success and the future of the US, and as such black colleges and
schools popped up all over the South during reconstruction. Booker T. Washington became an
important figure and spokesman for the African American community in the South, urging many
African Americans to go to school and focus on self-improvement along with learning useful
skills that would find them jobs in the future.
The Atlanta Compromise 422 Booker T Washington gave a speech that basically entailed that
African Americans would basically be in constant struggle with prejudice, but it is because of
this reason that they should take up arms and work harder to strive for not only equality but a
better future for all African Americans. Although encouraging, it was also him accepting that
African Americans for generations to come would still be stuck in a system of segregation.
Plessy Vs Ferguson 422 bruh how long has this ferguson guy been alive Another super
important court case in the US, Homer Plessy was arrested for sitting in the Whites Only section
of a train. Plessy was later kicked out of the train and arrested, but this was his plan all along.
Bringing the court all the way up to the Supreme Court, Plessy argued against John Ferguson
for the equal rights of African Americans, but ultimately failed, and in the end Ferguson won by
basically saying that the constitution don’t say nothing about equal rights being unconstitutional,
therefore, this court case instated Segregation as the norm in the US. :|



[PAGE 128]

Restricting the Franchise 423 To keep African Americans out of voting ballots, the US started
restricting the people that could legally vote. Property ownership was a requirement for voting,
and a “literacy test” was employed to determine who could vote. The stupid thing was that this
“literacy test” was skewed so that White voters could easily pass it, but African Americans were
also kept out. And even if they could, the threat of violence from White voters was so high that
many African Americans became very reluctant to even step in a one mile radius of voting
ballots. Another way that many states tried to make White voters the majority was by introducing
“grandfather laws' ', which would allow for men who had ancestors that had passed the stupid
literacy test or property ownership policies to vote. This seems great for African Americans,
right? WRONG! African Americans lineage often didn’t have people who could pass these
literacy tests, therefore virtually nothing changed for African Americans, and White Americans
that could have been once deemed unqualified now could vote just cuz their dad did in the past.
White Control Perpetuated 424 Along with segregation laws, Jim Crow laws stripped African
Americans of virtually all opportunity socially and economically. Laws were put in place to keep
African Americans out of power virtually 100% of the time.
Lynchings 424 oh man ! Thanks to Jim Crow laws, white people were allowed to get away with
basically any crime on an African American. The worst by far being Lynchings. Not much needs
to be said here that you guys don’t already know, but just for context: starting from 1890, an
average of 187 lynchings happened annually (that is 1 lynching every other day).
The textbook goes into detail about how some of these lynchings happened, so if you wanna
skip that feel free to see the next term, otherwise don’t read past this.
Lynchings were often celebrated by mobs of white people, and were held publically, with some
people even travelling just to see them. These lynchings were justified by the idea that most of
the victims had committed crimes(they did not, and if they did they were the smallest and
pettiest of them all). Along with this, lynch mobs didn’t actually do anything to research said
crime, often just acting off of assumption, that assumption being mostly false.
White Unity 428 White supremacy was used as a tool for the Southern oligarchy to stay in
power. The many economic issues many lower income white people faced were often set aside
so that white people could together, in unity, support…white supremacy (._. ) yeah the textbook
needs to fucking STOP. the textbook then says this:
Which uh. ??????? Like ok sure, but, you’re acting like poor african americans didn’t also have
a burden of being poor . Like did you think that it was only poor white people that had the burden
of being poor? And that African Americans were perfectly happy being poor? >:(
Stopping here for today APUSH textbook is bullshit



[PAGE 129]

Myth and Reality 431 As more people settled the West, the region became more familiar, turning
from the “Great American desert” into the “frontier” that we know so well. The lands were
considered empty and just waiting for white Americans to settle. This is not the reality, as we
know well enough by now. The American West had already been inhabited by people of all sorts
of cultures and backgrounds, ranging from Indigenous peoples all the way to Asian Americans.
These diverse cultures and backgrounds resulted in the wide range of diversity in the American
frontier.
Caste System 432 Holy shit India reference. Here’s a throwback to the start of the year:
Pueblos. The Pueblo people located in the Southwest region used an elaborate Caste system in
their society. If you don’t know what a caste system is, a caste system is basically a social
hierarchy/pyramid. Thanks to the Spanish influence, the Pueblo people had a caste system
based on, you guessed it, race, with Spanish and Mexicans at the top and Indigenous peoples
who were either no longer part of their respective tribe or PoWs, or in a lot of cases, enslaved at
the bottom.
Plains Indians 432 “Plains Indians” were groups of Native Americans that resided in the
American MidWest. Their tribes were in constant alliances and conflict with each other at all
times, had elaborate economies, differing languages, but overall had similar traits due to their
close contact. Most tribes were split into “bands” of 500 men and women combined, who would
mostly self govern. In these tribes, gender roles were very split, with men heading the military
and hunting, while women did the cooking and raised children. These groups were mostly
agricultural. Yeah I mean that’s it.
One important thing that is hard to fit anywhere is the importance of the Sioux people. The
Sioux people were considered the most powerful tribe, as their military prowess was unmatched
by the rest of their peers and was in large part due to their strong horses that were gained from
the Spanish generations ago.
Economic Importance of the Buffalo 432 Buffalo became a massive part of the lifestyle of the
Plains Indigenous people in America. The Skin was used for clothing and other cloth-related
stuff, flesh was used for meat, bones were used for tools, tendons for bowstrings, and even the
manure for fertilizer.
Indian Weaknesses 433 It was only a matter of time for the Plains Indigenous people before
they were eventually invaded by white Americans. Their land was already deemed American
territory and they still lacked immunity to many diseases, along with the technological and
economical advantage that White Americans had.
Taos Indian Rebellion 433 After the Americans invaded and acquired New Mexico, General
Stephen Kearny was put under the control of the region, and was assigned the responsibility of
assigning governors to the region. Ignoring the overwhelming majority of 50,000 Mexicans in the
region, Kearny opted to choose from the pool of 1,000 White Americans. This outraged the



[PAGE 130]

people of the New Mexico region, and in 1847, a group of Taos Indigenous peoples rebelled and
killed some of these chosen governors.
Hispanic Resistance 434 Hispanic societies survived in the Southwest region due to the fact
that they were so far away from White people, and also made sure to properly resist White
settlers by fending off cattle ranchers. There is no significance, no point, no nothing added to the
rest of this term so I will leave it off here I guess.
Decline of the Mission Society In the 1830s the new Mexican government began to reduce the
power the church held, significantly reducing the influence that missions had. This caused the
large- scale collapse of the missions across western US and Mexico.
Decline Status of Hispanics 434 The increase in the Anglo-Americans moving west into
California before and after the Civil war severely outnumbered the number of Californios(the
hispanic residents of Cali). Often because of this increase in Anglo communities NorCal was
often more populated with English speakers while SoCal was often where the larger pop. of
Hispanic people lived with many working in ranches. But this doesn't last long as a large drought
destroys this Hispanic ranching culture. Over time the hispanic population of cali began to
integrate into the anglos becoming a part of the lower working class in LA or becoming farmers.
This decline not only happens in Cali but also in Texas. When Texas finally joined the US as a
state many Mexican land owners lost their land and territory. Just like in cali, as more Anglos
moved to texas and as the Anglo Ranching Kingdom grew the Hispanic ranching culture was
taken over by the anglo ranchers. Also similarly the mexican ranchers went into lower working
classes or as unskilled farming.
Anglo, Anglo-Americans - English speaking American
Racism (against the Chinese) 435 aww shucks ! Prior to all this racism the chinese people
immigrating were welcomed because they were seen as hard workers. But in the 1850s
Chinese people started working in gold mines just like everyone else and some even found a lot
of success. But soon enough the US passed the foreign miners tax, discouraging all “foreigners”
from wanting to mine gold. Then throughout the 1850s more laws were passed discouraging
Chinese emigration .
Building the Transcontinental Railroad 436 After the decline of other jobs in labor and in gold
mines, Chinese people had to find jobs elsewhere. The construction of the Transcontinental
Railroad became this opportunity for over 12,000 Chinese people. The Central Pacific portion of
this railroad was 90% made of chinese laborers, because of the large population of chinese
people on the west, their expandability, low wages, and their trait for being hard workers.
我喜欢冰淇淋，但是不喜欢吃冰淇淋！
In 1866



[PAGE 131]

Establishment of Chinatowns 436 Many Chinese immigrants ended up living in very urban
areas like SF. This led to the creation of Chinatowns, as many marginalized Chinese tried to
create their own home away from home. These societies also revolved around powerful
organizations that would address common issues for Chinese living in the Americas. In fact,
some of these organizations are still running today!( I would know my dad had to deal with all of
em which meant i had to go to a lot of banquets and other rich people meetups)
What was also a thing in Chinatown were Tongs (i.e triad, chinese mafia, you get the idea)
They often made money through CRIME like drug dealing (gotta get that opium) and
prostitution.
Small Businesses like laundromats became a common way for people to make money in these
Chinatowns.
Anti Coolie Clubs 436 People really didn’t like the Chinese, so they made their own
organizations dedicated to not liking the Chinese! They sought to ban Chinese employment and
worked by Boycotting Chinese Businesses and attacking Chinese people. Eventually some of
these organizations would gain political power and also cultural and social power as well.
Chinese Exclusion Act 437 In 1882 Congress passed the Chinese Exclusion Act, which
prevented Chinese laborers from entering the country, except for merchants, which is a loophole
many exploited.The law was maintained for a while, and was even made permanent (the law
had 10 year extensions for a while) in 1902.
Chinese Resistance 437 As you might expect, Chinese people were mildly annoyed (very mad)
at these new laws directly targeting them. Many insisted that they deserved their rights and
were outraged that other immigrants like the Irish were not treated the same way.
Homestead act 437 Passed in 1862, the Homestead Act allowed settlers to buy land for cheap if
they lived there for 5 years and improved the land. Intended to give a lot of people a head start
farming and stuff, the lawmakers forgot a really important part of farming: people need to buy
farm equipment. So you had a bunch of people buy land, but they couldn’t afford farming
equipment to do stuff with it. Also 160 acres wasn’t enough land to do much with.
Government Assistance 438 The Government had to improve the whole Homestead act thing a
lot, so they gave out more land for even cheaper. However, this became the new meta exploit
for people who were already rich. The new meta was 1. Be rich 2. Bribe people for more land.
Through this exploit, many corporations seized MILLIONS of acres.
READING QUIZ#10 INFO ENDS HERE
Limited Social Mobility 439 Even though people could move to the west, people couldn’t really
improve their social situation. The poor remained relatively poor, and the rich people had the



[PAGE 132]

opportunity to buy a bunch of new land and become richer. In the end, wealth distribution had
become relatively similar to the Eastern parts of America.
Racially Stratified WOrking Class 439 The working class was a diverse group of people of many
races. Too bad everyone hated each other. White workers typically were able to climb socially
and economically, while everyone else was condemned to manual labor for most of their lives.
In addition, WHITE employers typically assumed that Chinese, Mexican, Filipino, and other not
white workers were better for manual labor, and therefore yearned for the mines.
Life Cycle of a Mining Boom 439 After the 1848 California Gold Rush and it’s subsequent
smaller Gold Rushes, miners actually found great fortune mining out the mountains and
plateaus of the region which were rich in all sorts of minerals. This mining boom lasted for
around 30 years before it eventually collapsed (these resources after all are limited, so as time
goes on, profits diminish). This was in fact the case for all the Gold and Silver rushes that went
on in California, with miners moving from one mineral to another, first Gold and Silver, then Lode
and Quartz, and then whatever was leftover, until the land was devoid of all precious metals.
Comstock Lode 439 During the period of the Colorado Gold Rush of 1859(another large and
famous Gold Rush), miners found an abundance of Comstock Lode(named after Henry
Comstock) in the Nevada region, specifically in the Washoe district. This led to a ton of
Californians moving in search of this Lode fortune in Nevada, and as a result led to the
development and settlement of the mostly White settler-free Nevada.
Gender Imbalance 441 Because mining was only considered a “man’s job” back in the day, it
became apparent that men greatly outnumbered the women in California and the other Western
regions, and women that did come were often there with their families. Single women that did
come to the West often worked for wages as cooks, tavern keepers and other service jobs, and
of course, with that many dudes around there was always a market for prostitution.
Mexican Origins 441 In the middle great plains areas cattle ranching industry contributed alot to
the changing economy. Many of these people who work in cattle industry such as the cattlers
and the cowboys(yeehaw) took their techniques and equipment from Mexican Cattlers. Many of
these were used by American Texans and by the end of the Civil War Texas had the largest
cattle kingdom in the States
Chisholm Trail 442 Cattle Industry was booming evrywehre in the mid-US area causing a use of
trails such as the Chisholm Trail to transport cattle from texas to kansas. (more but i dont wanna
do that stuff)
Political Gains for Women 443 Women who lived in the western US suffrage earlier than the rest
of the nation. Aside from some states/territories giving women for niche reasons most states
granted suffrage for the reason that women were seen as more generous, or virtuous.



[PAGE 133]

Rocky Mountain School 443 It was a group of artists that traveled west to paint the nature such
as the rockies, the rockies plateaus, the great plains, and the sierra nevada. These pieces of
arts cause people to be fascinated the west which causes a influx in tourism to the west.
Someone is impersonating me i didnt do these terms. Nvm i have short term memory i did do
these
Myth of the Cowboy 443 yee haw The Cowboy has been an American icon for the past 200
years, and it’s lifestyle of loneliness, physical discomfort and low pay breaks the myth and the
idolization of such a lifestyle that many Americans have. It is thanks to movies and novels such
as Owen Wister’s The Virginian that the cowboy has received such a remarkable reputation in
the 1900s. The Cowboy was just another job that has been overromanticized by the media,
such as the Knight, Ninja, or Samurai.
Romantic Image of the West 444 America had its culture largely built on expansion into new
territory, as we all know, Europeans came to the country with nothing (besides guns, diseases,
metal gear, livestock, and big money from investors and other rich people) and miraculously
managed to expand all the way West (by murdering the Indigenous peoples that had been there
for millenia). As the American land mass began to slowly become more and more settled by
White Americans, there was a ton of romanticization of the land that had been considered the
“final frontier”. This, like Cowboys, was also driven by the media. Mark Twain’s Adventure of
Tom Sawyer and Adventures of Huckleberry Finn portrayed this idea of the “Final Frontier” to a
large audience, only driving the popularity of the idea (and romanticization).
Frederic Remington 444 As we discussed in the term directly above, big big over romanization
of the West and the “final frontier”. Another person like Mark Twain that contributed to this idea
was Frederick Remington, a painter and sculptor who was largely responsible for making
cowboys the oh-so reverend figures we consider them today. Looking at his art, it’s actually
kinda fire I won’t lie.
Turner’s Frontier Thesis 445 Some guy named Frederick Jackson Turner, a historian from the
University of Wisconsin argued that the American frontier, and it’s demise was the end of one of
the “most important democratizing forces in American life”. Basically he just said by
accomplishing “Manifest Destiny”, the Americans were destroying American culture. This
however, is not true since Americans, Indigenous peoples, and Hispanic peoples had already
been living on these lands for a while.
Psychological Loss 447 I honestly have no clue why the past 5 terms are even in the fucking
textbook but whatever. Basically since the West was now fully occupied by White settlers, its
psychological damage was so great that a part of the American culture was therefore destroyed.
A historian named Henry Nash Smith, would later dub this the “myth of the garden”, in reference
to the Garden of Eden where a person could begin a new life with new opportunities, in this
case, the garden being the American West. Interpret that sentence however you wanna.



[PAGE 134]

Concentration Policy 448 The US, who viewed Indigenous tribes as their own sovereign entities,
yet while having rule over these groups of people constantly struggled with a set policy on how
to treat these people that most definitely accept some random mayo monkeys coming out of
nowhere claiming that they now rule over them. For an all-encompassing law, the Federal
government decided on the Concentration Policy, which would force Indigenous people to sign
treaties that would relocate them to new locations, with these treaties signed by people that
were chosen by…white people…
Poorly Administered Reservations 448 In 1867, Congress established the “Indian Peace
Commission”, which would replace the concentration policy with a plan to move all the Plains
indigenous people to 2 large reservations in Oklahoma and the Dakotas. By using bribes,
trickery and corruption, the respective groups all ended up agreeing to this treaty. The expelling
of Indigenous peoples off their land to the new reservations was to be supervised by White
management that were mostly very incompetent, with no understanding of the people they were
managing and lack of logistical knowledge, messing up supplies, payments, so forth.
Decimation of the Buffalo 448 American Settlers dunked on the populations of Buffalo that many
Indigenous people relied on for their survival. By 1875, less than a thousand buffalo were left
alive. By killing so many buffalo, Americans had basically starved thousands of people, and
reinforced people’s ideas that coexisting impossible
Indian Resistance 449 With white people moving west and taking over Indigenous territory, the
natives feel treatened. Becuase of this Indigenous warriors form raiding parties to attacked
wagon trains, stagecoaches, and ranches. Soon after when the US army gets involved the
warriors start targetting white soilders. Evenually these small fights between indigenous raid
parties and the US Army escalates very close to a war. In Minnisota the Sioux tribe starts a
rebellion lead by Little Crow against the the American Goverment placing restrictions on them.
In this act of resistance the indigenous killed 700 white people before being stopped where 30
Indigenous were hanged and the tribe was exiled to the Dekotas.
Sand Creek Massacre 449 In Eastern Colorado the Arapaho and Cheyenne tribes were
attacking the miners that were settling here to try and regain their land. In response to this a
large territorial militia was sent to regain “their land”. The governer of this area asks the freindly
indigenous to camp out near army posts for protection. SOOOOO Cheif Black Kettle(kettle??)
goes with many other indigenous people to camp in Sand Creek near Fort Lyon for safety. Then
the commander of the area with many volunteer militia men, and unemployed miners
(ALLEGEDLY drunk) went to Sand Creek and massacared over 250 people.
Black Kettle and some other indigenous who escaped the massacre to the border of texas. 4
years later is found and the rest of the survivors are killed.
aiden spell words challenge???
Jk love you aiden
Indian Hunting 449 In places like California, killing Indigenous people became kind of a sport.
Wow that’s fucked up. Some people who didn’t want to murder but still wanted to participate put



[PAGE 135]

bounties up for people who killed Indigenous people. A lot of people were dedicated to this
ethnic cleansing. What are the consequences of this? Good Question! The book sweeps this
under the rug.
Little Bighorn 451 A battle where many Indigenous people ambushed and killed General Custer
and 264 members of his army. Who is Custer? Uh the book says he’s an important glory
seeking gu in y so i’m assuming he is a scumbag or something but that’s not really important.
What is important is that this battle is like the one time multiple groups of Indigenous people get
together and form an army. After the battle, the army kinda broke up apart as supplies dwindled.
Chief Joseph 451 Leader of the Nez Perce Tribe, Chief Joseph led his group of like 500 people
on a journey to Canada to escape violence and getting put in a reservation, both things the US
government wanted. Just before they reached the border, the US pulled up and Joseph and
most of his people gave up. He and his tribe were sent from one reservation to another and
many of his followers died of starvation and disease. (wow poor guy…)
Ghost Dance 452 A movement similar to Taki Onqoy from AP World, some indigenous person
had a vision of a White Retreat from the plains and a return of the Buffalo. The key part of this
movement was the “Ghost Dance”.
Yeah the textbook doesn’t really say much about it huh?
Wounded Knee 452 Custer’s Former Unit (the one that got dunked on in Little Bighorn) tried to
round up a group of 350 Sioux and about 40 white soldiers died when they fought back.
However, 300 Sioux Died WTF) and yeah it was a massacre. That’s it
Assimilation 453 The Dawes Act gave Land to Indigenous families based on how many people
were in their direct family. The idea was to get Indigenous people to start getting used to land
ownership. In addition, this act did a little trolling and set people’s kids to boarding schools to be
assimilated into white culture. They were also taught the ways of Christianity. Uh oh.
This whole program was pretty corrupt and really didn’t do much.
Key Role of the Railroad 453 The Railroad was important for agricultural settlement because
people could
a. Travel faster (no way)
b. Transport good (no way)
Railroad companies made fare cheap and sold land for cheap to encourage people to move
westward as well.
Barbed Wire 454 Barbed Wire (which was not electrified because nobody had car batteries)
solved the great problem of getting cattle to STAY ON THE DAMN FARM GODDAMMIT. Yeah
this is the NEW FENCE META FOR FARMING + 300 LP + $1000 CATTLE MONEY REAL.



[PAGE 136]

Drought 454 In the plains states, water was mostly obtained from the Mississippi river, and
when your source for water is limited to just 1, it becomes REALLY hard to get consistent water
at all times. In 1887, a long dry season began, turning fertile lands into deserts. Farmers turned
to “dryland farming”, where farmers would use deep wells powered by windmills to get water
from underground. Unfortunately, this was not enough to help out farmers, and government
intervention or funding was desperately needed.
Hard Times for Farmers 454 Due to the droughts in the 1880s, farmers obviously found it pretty
hard to be alive. Crop prices also fell to the floor, and because many of them had debts to pay, a
lot of farmers started moving back East towards their old homes and families. This resulted in
many ghost towns across the plains area that can probably still be found today.
Consequences of Overproduction 455 Overproduction of specific crops was happening globally.
This caused the American farming industry to crash. I mean, this is nothing new, the past 2
terms have been saying this I don’t know. This resulted in many poor farmers who could not
afford land. So who profits the most off of this? Landlords that rent out land to the farmers.
Isolation 455 Because so many people were leaving for the East, farm families that stayed West
were often left in complete isolation, where they had to provide 100% for themselves. Because
they also had no access to good schools, medical facilities, or any recreational activities, many
children left for cities, showing a growing dominance in the American urban life’s pull.
Transformation of the National Economy 459 The US had become the world’s first
manufacturing nation by 1890, achieving what the UK had done in half the time(not really). This
showed the full transformation of an agricultural economy to a manufacturing one. This term is
in the info paragraph of the chapter so there isn’t much here.
New Steel Production Techniques 459 Thanks to the domestic demand of railroads and other
steel and iron products, the US had become a hub for steel production and innovation. Henry
Bessemer and William Kelly found a process in which they could convert iron into a very strong
steel. This process also relied on British metallurgist Robert Mushet’s findings in which he
added other ingredients to iron to transform said iron into steel (whoa that’s something AP
Chem related!). Last example: New Jersey ironmaster Abram S. Hewitt found a method from
Europe that would also help steelmaking, the open-hearth furnace. I don’t know why the
textbook makes a big hoopla about American innovation when in reality it was European
innovation but go off.
Pittsburgh 460 Pitssburgh quickly became a center for the steelworks world, sporting a large
supply of ore for people to use and innovate with. Along with Pittsburgh, the North East region
such as Cleveland, Detroit, Chicago, and Birmingham also became very important regions for
steel and ironworks.
Rise of Petroleum Industry 460 Ah, this is where things get REALLY American. Steel works
require a lot of lubricant(not that type you fucking immature loser), and as such, a new industry



[PAGE 137]

popped up in the US, petrol (remember, it is NOT being used as a fuel source just yet).
Pennsylvania became the first center for oil production in the US. George Bissel became one of
the first to exploit this, raising money to start drilling for oil.
Henry Ford 461 Perhaps the most important person in American manufacturing history, Henry
Ford developed the automobile industry in the US, building the company named after him in the
early 1900s and making excellent use out of (exploiting his employees and being a terrible
person) the conveyor belt for production and profit.
Corporate Research and Development 462 During the 1900s, America received a massive
wave of innovation and technological advancement, from Henry Ford to the Wright brothers.
Because of this, America began to become more and more corporate, with massive companies
owning huge stakes in the economy, such as the Bell Telephone, Du Pont, GE, and Kodak.
Transformation of Higher Education 462 Scientists and Engineers started to hate each other for
uh. Some reason? The textbook does NOT do a good job explaining this. But all you really need
to know is that this time is when science and engineering really started to be grouped together
because Scientists and Engineers had to work together.
Taylorism 462 Taylorism is the idea that workers should divide tasks to separate employees.
Basically one person does this, another person does that, not everybody doing the same thing.
Not much else needs to be said, there’s no real cause and effect here, just an idea.
Moving Assembly Line 463 In 1914, Henry Ford introduced the technique of the assembly line,
cutting the time for assembling parts of a car from 12 to 1 hour, and slashed prices of the Model
T down to a third of the price because of the sheer amount of cars that could be assembled.
Rapid Expansion of the Railroad 463 During the 19th century, the largest growing US
infrastructure project was far and away the railroad. From 1860 to 1900, around 140,000 miles
of rail were constructed. To fund the construction of the railroads, investors were needed, and
those that invested in these railroads the most became some of the most powerful people in the
country, such as Cornelius Vanderbilt, James J Hill and Collis P Huntington.
Limited Liability 464 During the 1830s and 1840s, companies started to sell stock to the public
to raise money and incentivise investors. This practice only grew as America became more and
more corporate. Affluent members of American society began putting large portions of their
money into said stock and this was viewed as investments. The appeal of these investments
was that by buying stock, they only had “limited liability”, meaning that even if they lost money,
they wouldn’t lose that much, and that they as investors were not very liable if the company
failed.
Andrew Cargenie 464 A Scottish immigrant who opened a Pittsburgh steel work in 1873,
Andrew Carnegie became one of the largest figures in the industry using a wide range of
techniques to dominate the steelworks industry in the US. Carnegie became by far the most



[PAGE 138]

successful and powerful figure in the steel and railroad market, amassing a fortune so great in
stock that he eventually cashed out to JP Morgan for $450,000,000, an absurd amount in
today’s money.
New Managerial Techniques 465 New management techniques were also found in the US, with
Gustavus Swift developing the “middle manager” executive, which would form a layer of
command between workers and owners (basically a company hierarchy). These techniques
punctured every hole in the US corporate world, and are the basis for American corporate
culture today and across the globe honestly (hence why East Asian corporate life is so fucking
miserable).
Horizontal and Vertical Integration 465 Big companies gained more profit through 2 means:
horizontal integration and vertical integration. Horizontal integration was basically combining a
bunch of companies into the same enterprise, and vertical integration was the method in which
companies would take over other businesses that said company relied on, for example a tech
company acquiring the company that manufactures its products.
Rockefeller’s Standard Oil 465 John Rockefeller’s Standard Oil was a prime example of using
Horizontal and Vertical integration to its fullest potential, becoming one of the largest corporate
empires in the US, and effectively one of the first monopolies, controlling 90% of the refined oil
in the US.
The Trust Agreement 465 The “trust”, pioneered by Standard Oil and perfected by JP Morgan,
the “trust” as an agreement in which stockholders in smaller companies transferred their stock
to a group of investors, and then the original stockholders would then buy shares of those
investors they just gave their stock to.
Rapid Corporate Consolidation 467 America had become a country of monopolies. Under 1% of
companies owned 33% of the manufacturing market, and bankers such as JP Morgan and
industrial figures such as Rockefeller had an incredible amount of power over the American
population and economy.
Myth of the Self-Made Man 467 The US had a myth that everybody had a chance to succeed
and attain great wealth such as the figures mentioned above. Although technically true, in
practice it was nearly impossible. The American corporate ladder was a thin, creaky one that
only a select few could ever hope to climb (unless you were born rich).
DONE
FUCK
We gotta go up to page 470 :DDDDDDDDD SO HAPPY



[PAGE 139]

Social Darwinism 471 People tools Darwin’s Law of Evolution and began to apply it to human
society. Darwinists claimed that only the fittest individuals in human society succeed and get
rich. That meant that the poor were inferior to the rich genetically, and a whole lotta
discriminating stuff.
Justifying the Status Quo 471 Social Darwinism was used to justify the wealth gap and the poor
labor conditions that many worked in. People claimed that raising wages would lead to disaster
because the poor were destined to be poor. yeah.
Russell Conwell 471 A Minister who preached the idea of “acres of diamonds, or that ordinary
people could find wealth and riches on working their land. He also preached that anyone could
become a millionaire.
Horatio Alger 472 Another Minister who was no longer a minister due to uh (sexual assault)
Who became an author. He wrote many novels of ordinary people becoming rich and famous
and he became a folk hero. He was also gay. The texbook just threw that in. ok.
Lester Frank Ward 472 A Darwinist (but not a social Darwinist), he argued that civilization
should be ruled by the intelligent. He also believed that the government and proper planning
would save the economy and adjust it to fit the needs of the people.
Henry George 473 An Author who argued that poverty was a bad thing (revolutionary idea), and
tried to analyze the reasons why poverty existed. He argued that the rising value of land and the
creation of monopolies lead to the creation of a great wealth disparity. In addition, he argued
that all taxes should be replaced with a single tax that would scale per person. He argued that
this would distribute wealth more evenly.
Looking Backward 473 A Novel by Edward Bellamy that is about a guy who sleeps until 2000
(huni??) and find a new social order where all bad stuff is gone, and the world is peaceful, and
everything is awesome.
Why is this here? Idk man.
Increasing Inequality 475 The wealth inequality got REALLY bad, where 10 million people at
least lived BELOW the poverty line. The wealth disparity was increasing, and the rich became
more and more influential over the country.
New Sources of Immigration 476 Immigrants from Ireland and England became less common,
and More Southern and Eastern Europeans began to move to America. Mexicans were pretty
common immigrants and Chinese WERE common immigrants until, you know.



[PAGE 140]

Heightened Ethnic Tensions 476 More immigrants led to a lot of tension between ethnic groups
as immigrants are usually willing to work for cheaper to get jobs. This leads to tensions because
jobs are lost, and wages overall are lowered.
Loss of Control 477 The Average worker got a lot less powerful in the grand scheme of things.
Skilled workers became unnecessary due to machines doing a lot of the work, and As
corporations grew and managers became a thing, unions and workers in general became
extremely weak.
Poorly Paid Women 477 Women were paid a lot less than women, even in the same jobs as
men in factories. Wages for women were like $5 a week, which is significantly less (about half)
than men and definitely not enough to survive on
Ineffective Child Labor laws 478 Child labor yippee! (sarcasm). At least 1.7 MILLION kids were
employed. Laws passed to prevent child labor were passed, except they had exceptions for
agriculture, where most child labor was present. OOP. Other laws set the age MINIMUM at 12
with a workday of 10 hours. Yeah! Plus a lot of kids died handling heavy machinery.
National Labor Union 478 The National Labor Union was the first major National Union (no
way). They disbanded after the panic of 1873. But while they were a thing, they argued to have
women not work in factories because they were paid less (and therefore the men were paid less
as well). The textbook then says that many women agreed with the notion that they should be in
domestic work (WHAT), and used this as justification for men being paid more so that women
can afford to work in the home???? what????
Molly Maguires 479 A Militant labor organization in Pennsylvania consisting of mostly coal
workers. They tried to get better working conditions through violence and murder, leading to the
perception of all unions as a bunch of terrorists. They were also used as justification to violently
suppress unions.
National Strike 479 The Great Railroad Strike of 1877 began when railroads announced a
whopping 10% pay cut to everyone. Strikers then disrupted rail service from Baltimore to St
Louis and destroyed a lot of equipment. There were also a lot of riots. The military was called in
and a lot of people died. However, no real improvements happened because of this strike.
Dissolution of the Knights of Labor 480 Union formed in 1869 of many workers, skilled and
unskilled. Super against child labor, and the main vision was to have industries owned by
workers instead of capitalists. African Americans and women were also allowed in the union and
had a number of successful strikes.
Opposition to Female Employment 480 Men in unions would very against women working telling
them to stay home



[PAGE 141]

THe AFL’s Agenda 481 The Afl wanted to focus on the relationship between Laborers and
management. It supported the most important things to get laborers on their side, which were
better wages and safer working conditions. In addition, the AFL was willing to get people to
strike if they needed to
Haymarket Square 481 In Chicago, a strike gets violent when someone throws a BOMB AT THE
POLICE. This led to the police opening fire on everyone. The strikers were blamed for the
violence and 8 were arrested and sentenced to death. This made people a lot less enthusiastic
about labor unions and strikes overall.
Henry Clay Frick 481 what the frick dude Henry Clay FRICK was Carnegie’s chief lieutenant
and he cut wages at Carnegie’s factories. At first, unions folded because they could not muster
up enough strength to strike. However, when the unions were strong enough to and went on
strike, Frick called in the Pinkertons to deal with them and fighting broke out. The pinkertons
had to surrender and leave, but then the National Guard came in to protect Scab workers.
The Union Defeated 482 Frick’s battle with the Strikers led to the defeat of the Amalgamated
Union, dropping from 24000 members to only 7000. Its decline was indicative of the power of
unions as a whole (or lack thereof).
Eugene Debs 482 Eugene was the leader of the American Railway Union. He supported a strike
against the Pullman Company by getting his supporters to not deal with Pullman cars and
equipment. However, the General Managers’ Association (think union but for managers)
convinced their people to fire and replace strikers. This back and forth quickly led to the
shutdown of railroads from Chicago to the coast.
A lot of governors tried to get things back to normal by force, but the Governor of Illinois refused
to use his militia.
Shifting Nature of the Workforce 483 Laborers were weak because many immigrants assumed
that they would be working temporarily until they could make some money. In addition, the
assumption that immigrants would have no real future in the country (due to discrimination and
laws like the Chinese Exclusion Act) weakened the will for Immigrants to unionize and change
things. Other workers were constantly moving
Corporate Strength 483 Corporations gained a lot of strength due to the sheer amount of money
and influence these companies had (after all, people relied heavily on steel, oil, and railroads).
These corporations were willing to destroy any efforts to challenge their profit margins.



[PAGE 142]

START OF SPRING
Don’t get confused between fall and spring semester reading quiz numbers ty
READING QUIZ#1 INFO STARTS HERE
Rapid Urban Growth 487 By the 1920s, a majority of the AMerican people lived in urban areas,
anywhere with 2500 people ore more. New York had almost 3 million people, and other cities
had similar levels of growth. The city attracted many people from rural areas with conveniences,
entertainment, and a new way to experience American culture not found in small rural towns.
Geographic Mobility 488 As cities became more urban, many more people moved out of Rural
areas to live in cities. A decent amount of people moving were young women who had little
opportunity in rural farms.
African American Communities 489 Chat we are back at it again!! By the end of the 19th
century, there were substantial African American communities in over thirty cities, many of them
in the South. Black communities established in the late 19th century paved the way for the great
population movements of the future.
THe Diverse American City 490 Other countries that were experiencing heavy immigration in
this period were facing immigrants coming from one or two sources. For example, in Argentina,
almost everyone was coming from Italy and Spain. However, in the United States, substantial
groups arrived from all over the world, and, in some towns, a dozen different ethnic groups
found themselves living in close proximity.
Benefits of Ethnic Communities 491 Immigrant neighborhoods offered newcomers familiarity in
a foreign country. They could find newspapers and theaters in their native languages, sotres
selling their native foods, and more. Many immigrants also maintained close ties with their
native countries, and some immigrants helped bring the rest of their families to America.
Americanization 491 Many immigrants came to America with romantic visions of the New World,
Changing Gender Roles 492 Due to the urge for immigrants to assimilate into American life,
many families that once would have their daughters lives decided through arranged marriages
or had mothers that were a lot more subordinate to their husbands would be forced to have the
females in the family also go off and work for money.
Nativism 492 Some Americans thought of the newly immigrated Europeans as “Europe’s human
and inhuman rubbish”, and this idea was also carried to the West coast in prejudice against
Mexican, Chinese, and Japanese immigrants. This is the idea behind Nativism. Such an idea is



[PAGE 143]

also fueled by angry Americans having to take a pay cut to stay competitive in a saturated job
market.
Immigration Restriction League 492 In 1887, Henry Bowers, a lawyer well known for his hatred
against Catholics and foreigners founded the American Protective Association, which, as you
guessed, was committed to stopping immigration to the US. The fact that this group reached a
staggering 500,000 members went to show just how widespread Nativism was.
Later, a group of 5 Hardvard Alumni started the Immigration Restriction League, which was not
as terrifying as Henry Bower, but instead concluded that immigrants should be given a literacy
test to determine whether or not they were to be allowed into the States.
Advantages of Cheap Labor 494 Cheap labor was what led the American economical machine
to keep running during this time period, and the financial incentive drowned out the arguments
made for literacy requirements, leading to President Grover Cleveland to veto the usage of said
literacy requirements.
Fredred Law Olmstead and Calvert Vaux 494 Around the mid 19th century, cities had started to
pop up, and would feature a lot more sophisticated planning from architects and planners and
the like. Frederick Law Olmstead and Calvert Vaux, two landscape designers, were the driving
force behind New York’s Central Park. This turned out to be a huge success, and the 2 were
called up to work on other parks in cities such as Brooklyn, Boston, Philly, Chicago, and DC.
City Beautiful Movement 494 Cities now had a large motivation to attempt to make themselves
look really pretty and more livable, and such was the case in the 1893 Columbian Exposition in
Chicago, dubbing it the “Great White City”. The movement became the inspiration behind the
“city beautiful” movement led by architect Daniel Burnham. This movement inspired other city
remodeling projects in DC and SF.
The Back Bay 495 The Back Bay was an effort in Boston in which the city filled in a marshy tidal
land to create a new neighborhood. This neighborhood was called the “Back Bay”. I don’t know
why this entire section is important at all but whatever I guess.
Growth of SUburbs 495 The land on the edges and outskirts of cities became quite cheap for
the average American middle class person, and as such the American suburbs as we know
them started to grow. In the 1870s, Chicago hosted nearly 100 suburban areas connected to the
city.
Tenements 495 For the average person in the US however, it was pretty unreasonable to even
own their own land. Most people lived in large cities and were exploited by Landlords as
landlords attempted to squeeze as many paying tenants as physically possible in a building.
These buildings became known as “tenements”. To put into perspective just how packed these
buildings were, Manhattan had a population density of 143 people per acre, higher than any



[PAGE 144]

European city of the time. In the most packed areas, the concrete jungle would host nearly 700
people per acre.
Jacob Riis 495 Jacob Riis was a Danish immigrant and New York reporter and photographer,
and would often photograph how the vast majority of Americans lived, bringing awareness to the
rest of the US about how people in New York and other large industrial cities were living. This
however, didn’t solve the problem since reformers just attempted to get rid of the Tenement
buildings while not providing an alternative to the terrible living conditions. Think of it as you
always having a shitty teammate on a team so your solution is to just get rid of him. Sure, you
got rid of the problem, but you did not solve it.
Transportation Problems 496 With that many people in one small area, a large problem in the
US cities became the issue of transportation. Roads became more and more unusable as the
surfaces were trampled into mud. This resulted in the city going into paving overdrive, re-paving
600 of its 2000 miles of streets.
MAss Transit 496 In 1870, New York opened its first elevated railway (gotta save on space yk).
And other large cities such as Chicago and SF (whoa that’s us!) quickly followed suit. In
Richmond, the first electric trolley line was put into function in 1888, with the number growing to
850 lines by 1895 in a multitude of cities in the US.
Development of Professional Fire Departments 498 Due to the very slightly problematic issue of
poorly constructed buildings catching on fire, Many Cities suffered “Great Fires”, where lots of
buildings and people burned. Which was bad, in fact. This led to the creation of Fire
Departments and encouraged people to rebuild their cities with safer, less flammable materials.
WHat did these fire departments do? Tough luck man this book doesn’t say.
Air Pollution 498 The Industrial Revolution led to a lot of decay in the environment. The obvious
problems like fires, disease, and crowding were seen as a result of industrialization. Pollution
was also a major issue due to the improper disposal of waste both human and industrial. At the
time, the common practice was to dump all waste into the rivers, which also happened to be
where EVERYONE GOT THEIR WATER FROM.
Air Quality sucked due to the burning of coal from factories, and furnaces from almost every
building in a city. This led to a massive amount of respiratory problems, which led to calls for
reform.
Public Health Service 498 The Public Health Service was a government established group that
was tasked with finding the causes of and preventing occupational diseases. It attempted to set
health standards, but lacked the power to enforce them. The Public Health Service was an
important albeit small step in the government recognizing the importance of public health and
labor safety.



[PAGE 145]

Salvation Army 499 A Charity organization founded in 1879 dedicated to feeding the homeless
and hungry. THey also helped get people back on their feet. Apparently there were tensions
between Protestants and Catholics over charity too?
High Crime Rates 499 Poverty and crowded cities led to lots of crime. Most of the crime was
relatively minor (stealing, scams, thieving, pinchin, lootin, etc) But there was still a notable
increase in violent crime as well. There were over 100 Murders per million people, which is a lot.
This takes into account the violence in places like the South, where lynching was commonplace.
People tended to blame crime on immigrants, but the crime rates show that there were pretty
equal.
Boss Rule 499 Boss Rule, or Political Machines were an important institution created during the
Gilded Age. Many immigrants needed support adjusting to a new American Urban Lifestyle, and
needed assistance with jobs and finding homes and being alive and having food and stuff.
Politicians turned to “boss rule”, where people would pledge their votes in a certain way in
exchange for relief in the form of food, coal, or potentially even jobs.
Graft and Corruption 500 Political machines also made a lot of money through corrupt means,
such as buying land where proposed developments were going to be made, or getting
kickbacks from contractors and construction companies. This led to Bosses getting RICH AS
HELL (and sent to jail).
Reasons for Boss Rule 500 Boss Rule seems pretty corrupt and stupid, but the reasons for
boss rule make sense. Many Immigrants who held voting power didn’t really care about morality
more than making a living. In addition, Bosses often helped people more than the government,
which made people feel loyal or indebted to bosses. Basically Bosses did stuff the government
wouldn't, leading to people relying on bosses.
Middle Class Culture 500 It was in the late 19th and early 20th centuries that the US middle
class culture and identity really started to cement itself as a part of US culture. The middle class
became extremely influential and was more populated. And while all of this is true, it does not
mention the fact that the vast majority of US citizens lived in utter poverty and were stuck in
large cities with no sign of making it into a better standard of living in sight.
Rising income 500 Due to the increased financial output of the American industrial economy,
companies could afford to raise incomes for workers, albeit at differing rates. The jobs that saw
the largest increase in paychecks were the “white-collar” workers, think clerks, accountants,
middle managers. However, even higher than that were the doctors, lawyers, and eventually
engineers (basically the jobs that our parents work).
New Merchandising Techniques 501 The American market grew and grew, and this was due to
the emergence of once highly skilled workers and hard to learn professions becoming jobs for
factory machines to do. Clothes for example, once had to be custom tailor-made, were now
being easily made by factories and sold cheaply to the world.



[PAGE 146]

Chain Stores 501 Local businesses became in danger of losing to nearby “chain stores” such as
A&P, a large grocery store chain in the US that started after the civil war. There was no reason
to support a local business besides personal connection and loyalty than to just go and look at
the wider variety and cheaper selection of goods that chain stores had.
Social COnsequences oF Mail ORder Catalogs 501 Chain stores failed to open new stores in
the rural and remote areas of the US, but managed to still reach their customers there in the
form of mail-ordering. Montgomery Ward would send a catalog of goods to these areas, offering
thousands of items for cheap prices, and this technique became very popular for other large
retail businesses like Sears and Roebuck.
Impact of the Department Store 501 Department Stores are widely responsible for the act of
shopping becoming a hobby in the US and honestly across the world. The large number of all
sorts of goods particularly in fashion, the salesclerks, and collection of luxury goods allowed the
American consumerism model to thrive.
—-------------------------------------------------------------------------
National Consumers League 502
New conceptions of Leisure 502
Simon Patten 502
Public Leisure 502
Major League Baseball 503
Growth of College Football 503
Gambling and Sports 505
Ethnic Theater 506
Vaudeville 506
The Birth of a Nation (uh oh) 507
Importance of the Saloon 507
Importance of the 4th of July 507
Emergence of Newspaper chains 508



[PAGE 147]

Social Realism 508
Ashcan School 509
“Natural Selection” 509
Pragmatism 510
Growth of Anthropology 510
Spread of Public Education 510
Land Grant Institutions 511
Morrill Land Grant Act, which provided states with land to establish institutions
WOmen’s Colleges 511
—------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Electoral Stability 515 The US split itself quite evenly into Republicans and Democrats at this
time, with 12 states being Republican and 14 being Democratic (southern states). New York and
Ohio remained as swing states, along with 3 other states.
High Turnout 515 Americans started to view themselves more and more as aligning with their
specific political party, and voting numbers soared throughout this era, with 78% of all eligible
voters deciding to vote.
Cultural Basis of Party Identification 516 Specific biases affected political alignment, Catholics,
immigrants, and lower income workers often aligned with the Democratic party, while the
complete opposite, Protestants, conservative middle/upper class citizens would vote for
Republicans. This makes sense however, since people would obviously vote for whoever would
best suit their interests, after all, it makes a lot more sense to make sure your existing voters do
not abandon you than to take a massive risk and try to win everybody over.
Civil War Pension System 516 The Civil War Pension was a system for Civil War Veterans that
fought for the US to be paid after retiring (it’s hard to find work as a veteran). Some attempted to
create a permanent system for this, but failed. As the Civil War generation died, so did the
pension system.
Stalwarts and Half Breeds 516 The Republican party is split into epic groups of people that have
different opinions on how to campaign and politics as a whole, this is so real guys can we get 10
likes???? The Stalwarts led by Roscoe Conkling (bruh his parents hate him) were the more
conservative “if it aint broke dont fix it” group, while the Half Breeds led by James G Blaine were
more radical and argued for reform.



[PAGE 148]

President Hayes would have a lot of headaches over trying to satisfy both groups of
Republicans.
What these people wanted:
Stalwarts - Maintain spoils system, where gov jobs are given to political supports/party loyalists
Half-breeds - Introduce civil service reform, moving towards merit-based hiring
Garfield Assassinated (watch sam o nella) 517 President Garfield gets murked by Charles
Guteau, who is a fucking wackjob. Look him up. Or watch Sam O Nella’s video. This guy is wild.
The funny thing is Garfield would have lived if his doctors actually washed their hands, he died
to infections AFTER the medical procedures.
Pendleton Act 517 Ok so Garfield’s vice president was Chester A Arthur, who was part of a
corrupt Political Machine/Boss Rule (you should know this because you read the vocab, right?)
thing. However, when he becomes president, he realizes he is actually going to have to do his
job properly.
Context Over! The Pendleton Act required that certain Federal Jobs were to be filled by passing
an exam, rather than appointments by those in charge. This Act challenged the Spoils System,
and also made it harder for the government to be corrupted.
Election of 1884 517 James G Blaine was the republican candidate and was often known as the
“Plumed Knight”, While Grover Cleveland was nominated for the democrat party. It’s a pretty
boring election nothing much happens, only thing of note is that religious background allows for
Cleveland to win 219-182, gaining Catholic support.
Sherman Antitrust Act 518 What is an Antitrust? An antitrust is a way for the legislature to
prevent the spread of monopolies and to promote competition in the economy. The Sherman
Antitrust Act was smoothly passed in 1890, but over the decade it was enforced, it failed to
deliver, and antitrust suits were more commonly used against labor unions rather than
businesses that ruled over the US economy as monopolies. It was unclear and many court
rulings found loopholes.
McKinley Tariff 518 The McKinley Tariff was a tariff that put a 50% duty on foreign imports,
basically banning any foreign imports because of the absurdly high cost. Pretty simple here,
McKinley is attempting to increase domestic production and competition.
Interstate Commerce Act 519 Midwestern farmers (Grangers were a big part of this (see term
right below!)) persuaded state legislatures to pass acts that would regulate railroads in the
1870s Why? A lot of railroads in the US were monopolies that were getting out of hand.



[PAGE 149]

The Supreme Court later ruled that the state laws put in place against the railroads were
unconstitutional in the Wabash case,making it clear that railroads would be under regulation of
the federal government from now on.
After this ruling, Congress would succumb to public pressure with the Interstate Commerce Act,
which would basically bring the railroad monopolies down declaring that interstate rail rates had
to be “reasonable and just”.
Grangers (term name is “origins but it makes no sense in this context) 520 The Grange was the
first major farming organization in the 1860s. Started by Oliver H Kelley, Kelley abandoned his
job in the government and founded the Grange Patrons of Husbandry, attempting to bring
farmers together to develop new farming techniques and tech. Membership soared as farm
prices decreased in 1873, and by 1875 had nearly 800,000 members.
Farmers started this because during the 1880s, American farmers were suffering from economic
decline, and knew that the American economy was headed in a direction of industrialization.
Their protest became one of the most influential movements in the US, starting the Populist
party and American Populism as a whole.
Economic Grievances 521 With the Depression of 1873 prices of farms decreased causing an
increase in peoples economic intrest of agriculture. With this change, many of the midwest
lodges shifted their focus from social organization to farms.
Political Program 521 The Grangers worked to elect state legislators that would support their
ideals, sometimes even running their own candidates. In the 1870s, they started by trying to get
laws passed that would regulate railroad practices, and were quite successful in doing so. (look
at interstate commerce act, the rest of this is just a repeat of that)
Mary Lease 521 In 1880, the Grangers lost a large portion of their members, dropping to just
100,000 members. It’s successor was the Farmers Alliance started by Southern farmers, and
had nearly 4 million members by 1880.
A big difference here was the involvement of women. The Farmers Alliance was not afraid of
having women as full voting members or having women hold high positions. Mary Lease for
example, was a very prominent Populist orator, with one of her most famous quotes being to
“raise less corn and more hell.” which goes SO FUCKING HARD.
Birth of the People’s Party 522 Due to the influence of the Farmers Alliance and their growing
sentiment, 1300 delegates met in Omaha to create a new party, the People’s Party, otherwise
known as the Populists under the head of Leonidas L. Polk.
Although young, this party was no joke, and in 1892 their presidential candidate James B.
Weaver got nearly 1 million votes and 22 electoral votes. The party elected 3 governors, 5

