[PAGE 150]

senators, and 10 congressmen, while also converting many Republicans and Democrats to their
cause.
Free Silver 523 The Populist party endorsed the idea of free silver, which would make silver a
basis of currency along with gold. This would allow for a cheaper currency to be a standard for
the US and therefore give better financial stability to those who could not afford gold.
Colored Alliances 523 Because of the similar situations of financial poverty that both White
populists and African Americans faced in the US, it became a lot easier for White populists to
accept African Americans as allies, therefore creating “colored alliances”. A majority of populists
were fine with this idea, albeit with the exception that African Americans could not have control
or high positions.
Populist Platform 523 Populists had a multitude of different ideas, one being the “subtreasury”
system in which the government would establish warehouses across the US that would work as
basically a crop bank. Using these warehouses, farmers could borrow money from the
government and sell their crops when prices were good, basically a way for farmers to ensure
maximum profit. Populists also wanted to get rid of national banks, and to improve the ability of
everyday people to influence the political environment of the US.
The rest of the semester guys lets do it.
Update as of 12/18/23 at 10:05 AM we did not do it. :\
God i love ap chemistry
Chem test was light af
NEW SEMESTER WOOOO!!!!! MORE NOTES!!111!! yipee !111!!1!
Period 7 Starts Here Guys.
wow this is literally 200 pages wtf.
Populism’s Ideological Challenge 524 Populists emphatically rejected the Laissez-faire ideas of
their time, including the idea that the rights of ownership are absolute.
Overexpansion and Weak Demand 524 Another main cause of The Panic of 1893. Depressed
prices in agriculture decreased the buying power of the farmers, the largest population group.
Depression conditions in Europe caused a loss of American markets abroad and a withdrawal
by foreign investors of gold. (Woah supply and demand!!! :0)
“Coxey’s Army” 525 In 1894, Jacob S. Coxey, an Ohio business man and Populist began
advocating a massive public works program to create jobs for the unemployed and an inflation



[PAGE 151]

of the currency. When it was clear that his plan wasn’t being considered in congress, Coxey
announced that he would march with a group of people to the capital.
“Crime of ‘73’” 526 WAS THAT THE CRIME OF 73????? In 1873, a law was passed that made
Silver money basically useless. Silver coins dropped to a 16th of their price. This put basically
any silver miner out of business, and the demonetization of silver became the “crime of 73”. This
scandal sent the US into problems when it came to currency for the following couple decades.
Symbolic Importance of The Currency Question 526 Silver becoming so cheap actually posed a
positive side, as it provided cheap currency for the common person to use, and as such, the
differing opinions of gold vs silver began to rise in the US in the form of symbolism. Using gold
was seen as rich and affluent, while silver was the people’s money and wasn’t corrupt like gold.
William McKinley 528 In 1896, William McKinley served as the Republican nominee, current
governor of Ohio. His biggest contribution to the US was the reinstatement of the Gold standard
and making Silver have value again which in turn also made it less unique in the economy since
it was no longer dirt cheap.
Before we move on, you’re gonna hear about the Populist party a lot and to refresh you (either
because you forgot or because we haven’t filled out the term yet lmao). The Populist party was
started by farmers and for farmers, which focuses on the general populace over stuff like
economic growth.
Oh this guy got assassinated by the way. Don’t know how much that matters.
“Cross of Gold” Speech 528 William Jennings Bryan, a 36 year old Nebraskan congressman
argued that silver must be kept cheap as a way for the laboring majority of the US to have a
usable currency, and that by reinstating the gold standard, it would “crucify mankind upon a
cross of gold”. Extremely hard ass quote by the way.
“Fusion” 529 The populist party in the US had to either name their own candidate or choose to
endorse Bryan by joining the Democratic cause. As such, many argued that “fusion” with the
Democratic party would be the best option, but others argued that it would result in the
destruction of the populist party. In the end, the party voted to support Bryan. I have no fucking
clue why this is so important, apparently the populist vote was what made or broke the election
but in the end McKinley won the election anyway.
Birth of Modern Campaigning 529 William Jennings Bryan went fucking balls to the walls this
election, becoming the first presidential candidate to show up everywhere to win the votes of the
people, traveling an estimated 18,000 miles while talking to 5 million Americans. As such, he
became the first person to use truly modern campaigning techniques. Oh Bryan kinda looks like
Saul Goodman by the way. I can imagine him talking with the voice teaching me about money
laundering.



[PAGE 152]

End of the People’s Party 530 Due to the loss of Bryan, the Populist party and their fusion
experiment went to the bin, and so did their party, marking the end of the farmer-led party.
Currency Act 530 Basically McKinley due to Republican support and his own views reinstated
the Gold Standard, therefore making gold the main currency in the US. Although the direct
impact is not shown, after the Gold Standard was reinstated, farmers started making more
money (definitely not due to foreign crop failures or anything). American businesses grew
though, since they benefited a lot off of the more expensive gold currency.
It’s called the Gold Standard Act of 1900 fyi
READING QUIZ#1 INFO ENDS HERE
READING QUIZ#2 INFO STARTS HERE
Increasing Importance of Trade 532 Foreign Trade became increasingly important to America in
the late 1800s, with the government relying on exports for a lot of its income. Many Americans
began to consider getting colonies in order to increase the area of trade influence. Americans
were also more informed about Europe’s imperialism thing, and they want to try it out too.
Intellectual Justification for Imperialism 533 In John W Burgess’ paper Political Science and
Comparative Law , he basically states that White people have the best governments, and
therefore are obligated to “support and uplift” more “savage” nations and force their superior
ways of life onto them (HMMMMMMMMMM).
Alfred Thayer Mahan 533 A captain and admiral of the Navy that believed that the US would
have a powerful navy and be able to control a worldwide economy. He also advocated for the
colonization of many islands to serve as naval bases and to help defend trade routes. He
constantly pushed for a stronger navy. You know how Kingpin loves the Mets? He loves the
Navy go Navy hit a home run Navy!!!
Venezuelan Dispute 534 Venezuela had a dispute in 1895 with England. The British ignored
Americans telling them to submit to arbitration, so America threatened war under grounds of the
Monroe Doctrine. The British backed down, as they didn’t want to go to war.
Self Sufficient Societies 535 Many Polynesian and Pacific Island communities were completely
self-sufficient (hence why there are people living there??? The book is stupid??? Is there a lore
reason??) and I guess they were separated from each other as well, with many conflicts
occurring as people tried to condense power.



[PAGE 153]

With the arrival of European traders and Missionaries, Disease was spread, and Americans
began to colonize and take control of the islands(all of them). Yup. Americans also tried to
destroy the native cultures in order to farm sugar. I love sugar. Sugar is great. The book talks
about Hawaii specifically, and Hawaiians were not very happy with American Colonization.
Queen Liliuokalani 535 Native Hawaiians did not accept their subordination without protest.
Queen Liliuokalani, a powerful nationalist, was promoted to the throne and began to challenge
the growing American control of the islands.
However, she only remained in power for two years, and by 1890 the US had eliminated the
privileged position of Hawaiian sugar in international trade. This, as expected, caused
Hawaian’s economy to plummet faster than the stock market in the Great Recession, and the
American farmers (not government) came to the “conclusion” that the only way to “save”
Hawaii’s economy was to become part of the US
Of course, the Hawaians rebelled, and after receiving aid from the US government, the Queen
gave up her authority.
Acquisition of Samoa 537 Basically the US, Britain, and Germany were fighting over the Samoa
islands, and the three fought for power in the islands, eventually settling on an arrangement to
“share” the power of the islands.
Yeah, this fucking failed, and Britain was offered teritories elsewhere in the Pacific, and the US
and Germany split the islands.
Yellow Journalism/Press/Media (not mentioned but i’ll put it here)
Since printing is pretty cheap now, there are a lot of magazines doing a little trolling and
spreading misinformation. THis is pretty important because it leads to a lot of clickbait over who
is to blame for a certain battleship that explodes and starts a war…
Cuban Revolt 538 The Cubans rebelled again in 1895, this time producing a ferocity from both
sides that shocked many Americans. The Cubans deliberately devastated the island (self
destruction) to force the Spaniards to leave, and the Spanish responded by confining civilians in
some areas to poorly prepared concentration camps, where Cubans died by the thousands to
disease and malnutrition.
The Maine 539 A letter written by Spanish minister Dupuy de Lôme was stolen and turned to the
American public, and excitement about Cuba rose even higher. During this, the American
battleship Maine blew up in Havana harbor with an estimated death toll of 260. The ship was
there to protect American lives and property, and many people assumed that the Spanish had
sunk it.



[PAGE 154]

Hindsight is 20/20, the Spanish in fact did not blow up the ship and it was a malfunction, but it
served as a catalyst to the massive war hysteria that followed.
Supply and Mobilization Problems 539 Soldiers faced serious supply problems. There was a
shortage of modern rifles and ammo, uniforms that were too heavy for the Caribbean climate,
terrible medical services, and the average school lunch in American public schools for rations.
Most of the army had no real experience in dealing with large-scale warfare, and the US had to
rely heavily on National Guard units organized by local communities for their soldiers.
Also racism was a thing 😀👍Black soldiers were still mistreated, and had many conflicts with
their white superiors. Seeing black Cuban soldiers fighting alongside whites as equals gave
African Americans a stronger sense of the injustice of their own position.
The Rough Riders 542 A group under General Leonard Wood in name, it was actually led by
Colonel Theodore Roosevelt (I wonder who this Roosevelt guy is, I’ve never heard of him!) who
resigned from the Navy Department to get into the war and fought to ensure his regiment made
it to the front before the fighting ended. His passion to join the war was heavily influenced by his
father’s decision to not join the Civil War, and Roosevelt Jr. sought to erase the family shame
this way.
The Rough Riders took Kettle Hill during the Battle of San Juan with the help of Black soldiers
from the 9th and 10th division, which was a vital turning point for the battle.
Annexation of Puerto Rico 543 The annexation of Puerto Rico produced relatively little
controversy in the United States. The island had been a part of the Spanish Empire since 1508.
Stuff unrelated to the Annexation of Puerto Rico…
Yeah, nothing much on the Annexation of Puerto Rico. It does talk about when control of the
island shifted over to the United States, the Americans were able to amend or veto any
legislation that the Puerto Ricans passed. This wasn’t taken lightly, and soon the US passed the
Jones Act which declared Puerto Rico to be United States territory.
Sugar Economy 543 The Puerto Rican sugar industry was massive, taking advantage of the
many many many many Americans that wanted to buy sugar without tariffs and stuff. Americans
began establishing large sugar plantations and hired people (often from other places) to work on
Puerto Rico.
However, since sugar was pretty much the only source of economic stability, when sugar prices
dropped, the economy of Puerto Rico would implode, and since everyone was farming sugar
there were also food problems. yay.
The Philippines Question 544 There wasn’t even a question…………….



[PAGE 155]

Anyway, terribly phrased things aside, this was when McKinley was debating on what to do with
the Philippines islands. He said that “divine guidance” helped him come to the decision to annex
the islands.
He said that giving the islands back to Spain would be cowardly and dishonorable, and turning
them over to another imperialist power would be bad business and the Filipinos were unfit for
self government.
So the whole point of this man’s monologue was that American had to educate, uplift, and
Christianize the Filipinos. (They were already Christian so like wtf was McKinley smoking??)
Anti-Imperialist League 544 There was fierce resistance to The Treaty of Paris pt 69420(Spain
giving up control to Cuba, Puerto Rico, Guam, and the Philippines.) in the Senate. During
debate over the ratification of the treaty, a powerful anti-imperialist movement arose around the
country to oppose acquisition of the Philippines. The anti-imperialists included some of the
nation’s wealthiest and most powerful figures: Andrew Carnegie, Mark Twain, Samuel Gopers,
Senator John Sherman, and others.
Election of 1900 545 Ok so our cunning friend William Jennings Bryan, a fervent anti-imperialist,
wanted imperialism to be the subject of a national referendum in 1900, where he was the
Democratic presidential candidate. Bryan managed to convince other anti-imperialist Democrats
to go along with the scheme.
But, the plan backfired on Bryan harder than the joke I was trying to make (I couldn’t find
anything good to compare it to). Basically, not only did Bryan not win the election, he took an
even bigger L than before.
Talk about good plans!
Platt Amendment 545 The US was pissed that Cuba didn’t mention the US in its constitution,
and then the US passed this thing.
The Platt Amendment barred Cuba from making treaties with other nations(Basically gave US
control of its foreign policies); it gave the US the right to intervene in Cuba to “preserve
independence, life, and property”; and it also required Cuba to permit American naval stations
on its territory.
Yeah, go imperialism!!!
American Economic Dominance 545 American investments quickly took over the island’s
economy. Said investments made the new nation an American economic appendage, and
Americans poured into Cuba to buy plantations, factories, and all that jazz.



[PAGE 156]

The Cubans, of course, hated this, and rebelled many times, eventually getting the American
military involved. Much like other territories the United States got access to, Cuba became a
sugar making machine, and suffered the same fates as Puerto Rico and Hawaii.
Emilio Aguinaldo 546 The leader of the Filipinos as they rebelled against the Americans due to
wanting independence rather than just another form of colonization . He claimed to head the
legitimate government of the nation, Filipinos relentlessly fought against the American army of
occupation from island to island for more than three years.
At first, American commanders believed that the rebels only had a small following, but by early
1900, General Arthur MacAruther wrote “I have been reluctantly compelled to believe that the
Filipino masses are loyal to Aguinaldo and the government which he heads”
Growing Economic Dependence 546 The US beat the rebellion, and in 1901, authority over the
islands was transferred to William Howard Taft, who was their first civilian governor.
Taft gave the Filipinos broad local autonomy, and built lots of infrastructure for the Philippines.
The Philippine economy(surprise!) became increasingly dependent on the US markets, as the
two countries frequently engaged in the practice of trading.
Hay’s “Open Door Notes” 548 The Open Door notes was basically the US creating foreign policy
for China. John Hay(Secretary of State at the time) asked all the European Countries with
SPHERES OF INFLUENCE (AP WORLD TERM IF YOU DON’T KNOW THIS GET REKT AP
WORLD GANG ON TOP 💪 ) to not tax each other and respect the rights of other nations. It
also said that China could collect taxes in all spheres. This allowed the US to trade freely and
maintain at least the facade that China is still independent.
What’s funny is that pretty much everyone the Open Door notes were meant for said “uhhh we’ll
do it if everyone else does it”, so Hays told everyone that “ok yeah everyone else agreed now
follow these rules”.
Boxer Rebellion (AP World reference?!???) 548 A Nationalist Chinese movement that was
focused on anti-foreigner sentiment. The Boxer Rebellion was spread widely across China,
attacking Europeans (and Christian Chinese) on sight pretty much. The Rebellion climaxed in a
siege of the Western foreign diplomatic corps, so all the European Countries got together to
jump the Boxers. The result was that The Open Door Notes got more approval and China had to
give even more concessions to the Europeans.
This uprising was called the “boxer” rebellion because historically the rebels used nothing but
melee weapons and kung fu, hence the name “boxer”.
Root’s Military Reforms 548 The Spanish American War made Americans realize that their army
system was too inefficient, and an overall lack of training and coordination made people realize
a real war might have been catastrophic. This leads to Elihu Root being appointed to manage a



[PAGE 157]

complete overhaul of the Army. Root enlarged the Regular army and established regular
standards for the National Guard. Root also led to the founding of many military colleges and
schools, It also created a central planning agency (The Joint Chiefs) to supervise and
coordinate entire wars and plan ahead for possible conflicts,
READING QUIZ#2 INFO ENDS HERE
Belief in Progress VIKTOR ARCANE?????????? 552 Progressivism is the belief in the idea of
social, political, and economic progress for all. Progressives believed that purposeful
intervention in social and economic affairs would lead to a better and more orderly society (she
belief in my progress till i societal advancement)
READING QUIZ#3 INFO STARTS HERE
“Antimonopoly” 552 Many Progressives were not happy with the Corporations that held
monopolies on America’s resources and infrastructure. The Fear of concentrated power led
many to challenge monopolies. The idea of Anti Monopoly was very popular to the Middle Class
and Farmers of America, and it led to the government passing antitrust laws for the very first
time.
Faith in Knowledge 552 Another progressive idea was the idea that natural and social sciences
could be applied to society. Many progressives believed that Education was more important
than anything when it came to creating a better society for all.
Many also believed that the government had to be modernized (completely different idea but its
mentioned here so…)
Ida Tarbell and Lincoln Steffens 553 Two really prominent muckrakers ( r eform minded
journalists, photographers and writers ) , Ida Tarbell enormous study of Standard Oil trust (firstly
published in magazines and then as a two volume book in 1904). Lincoln Steffens was a
reporter for McClure’s magazine and then author of a famous book based on his articles, The
Shame of the Cities ( 1904). His works sparked the sentiment for urban political reform.
Father John Ryan 553 A man who very much just followed the leader (the pope). He heeded the
pope’s warning that “a small number of very rich men have been able to lay upon the masses of
the poor a yoke little better than slavery itself”(I had an aneurysm reading that) and he worked
to expand the scope of Catholic social welfare organizations for decades.



[PAGE 158]

The quote above is just saying this: “A tiny group of extremely wealthy men have gained so
much power over the poor that their lives are controlled and burdened in a way that’s almost like
slavery.”
Jane Addams and Hull House 553 The most famous of these settlement houses was Hull
House, which opened in Chicago as a result of social worker Jane Addams. It became a model
for more than 400 similar institutions throughout the nation. These houses sought to help
immigrant families adapt to the language and customs of their new country.
These houses avoided the condescension and moral disapproval of earlier philanthropic efforts,
and embraced a belief that middle-class Americans had a responsibility to help others and teach
them how to create middle-class lifestyles.
Jane Addams started Hull House, a settlement house that helped poor immigrants adjust to
American life by providing education, childcare and social services. Became a model for
hundreds for 400 similar reform centers.
How did they differ from traditional charities? - Older charity groups often acted as though
“you’re poor cuz u made bad choices” but Hull House believed that poor immigrants just needed
support, that middle class people had a responsibility to help and help families to build stable
middle class lives.
American Medical Association 555 The AMA (but not of the reddit variety) was a national
professional society that called for stricter and more scientific standards for people to become
doctors. State governments responded by requiring all doctors to receive a license from the
state. In addition to all this, the AMA led to the more proper education of those in the medical
field, with Medical schools (Like John Hopkinds in Baltimore) being compared favorably to the
top schools in Europe.
National Association of Manufacturers 555 There were similar movements to the AMA in other
professions as well, such as Lawyer, Business, and Manufacturing Associations. The National
Association of Manufacturers is probably important, but the textbook uses this part to only talk
about other associations like the national Farm Bureau Federation and the US Chamber of
Commerce.
The important thing about all these associations is that they increased the standards of working
in these professions. No longer can untrained and incompetent people really associate with the
professionals and educated when it comes to trained professions.
However these Admission Requirements to these associations were also used for racist,
xenophobic, and sexist reasons, or even just to create a smaller supply for a higher demand for
skilled workers.
Female Dominated Professions Settlement houses, domestic work, and teaching became
professions that would have a majority of women. For educated black women, the existence of
segregated schools created a demand for African American Teachers. Nursing also became a



[PAGE 159]

women’s field during the 20th Century, developing professional standards and receiving
degrees.
Key Role of Women in Reform Causes 556 Despite lacking the right to vote, many women
would be important in reform movements. Uh that’s it. Literally.
Socioeconomic Origins of the New Woman 556 The “New Women” was a product of social and
economic developments for the rights of women. As women were working less in factories, and
staying at home more, developments like running water and electricity would make women
more active mothers at home. (uh book?) In addition, some educated women shunned
marriage.
“Boston Marriages” 557 Women that lived with each other in long-term relationships, with some
relationships being romantic (lesbians, but the book doesn’t say it directly) (i think roommates is
the historical term)
LONG BACON STORE REFERENCE!!
GFWC 558 The General Federation of Women’s Clubs coordinated many local organizations for
social causes. Many Club members were RICH, so these clubs ended up having decent
amounts of influence.
A Public Space for Women 558 The Women’s clubs served as places for Women to meet and
socialize without openly challenging the existing male-dominated society. Many clubs ended up
not really being focused on social reform, and more on uncontroversial things like supporting
schools and building hospitals and the like.
Women’s Trade Union League 559 Founded in 1903 by female union members and upper-class
reformers (No names??), it was committed to persuading women to join unions. The WTUL also
held public meetings on behalf of female workers, raised money to support strikes, marched on
picket lines, and bailed striking women out of jail.
Radical Challenge of Women’s Suffrage 559 Back then, suffrage seemed to many of its critics a
very radical demand, and that rationale was used by some early supporters to advance it.
Throughout the late 19th century, many suffrage advocates presented their views in terms of
“natural rights,” arguing that women deserved the same rights as men, including the right to
vote.
Opponents said that suffrage was a threat to the “natural order” of civilization. Antisuffragists,
many of whom were women, associated suffrage with divorce(many suffrage advocates also
supported making it easier for women to obtain a divorce), with promiscuity, immorality, and
neglect of children.
NAWSA 559 Led by Anna Howard Shaw and Carrie Chapman Catt, membership in the National
American Woman Suffrage Association grew from 13,000 to over 2 million in 24 years. The



[PAGE 160]

movement gained strength because many of its most prominent leaders began to justify
suffrage in “safer,” less threatening ways.
Conservative Arguments for Suffrage 560 Some of the reasons for Women’s suffrage were not
too nice. For example, many people in the Middle Class believed that African Americans and
Immigrants could vote, then white women should have the right to vote too (so basically racism).
Nineteenth Amendment 560 In 1920, the 19th Amendment gave women the right to vote. Some
feminists didn’t accept the justification for the 19th Amendment and wanted a more explicit
constitutional amendment, but many thought this was too radical. This amendment also did not
give ALL American women the right to vote. mainly just white women. African American, Asian,
and Indigenous women still had to fight for their rights to vote.(mainly just Black women tho
since they were the largest population of the 3)
Reforming Government 560 These progressive reforms that were carried out by the American
people were all missing one thing though: government intervention. It was impossible for these
reforms to happen at a national level without said intervention, and it quickly became the goal of
these movements to get the government to provide support in the form of new laws and
regulation.
Middle-Class Progressives 561 New generations of middle class citizens were nothing like their
parents when it came to their ideas on activism. While their pops and ma believed their time
was better put someplace else than something as “vulgar” as working-class politics, the kids
were very comfortable with speaking out against the government and joining in on the activist
movements.
Commission Plan 561 One of the first major successes came in Galveston, Texas, where the
old city government proved unable to deal with the effects of a destructive tidal wave in 1900.
Capitalizing on public dismay, reformers, many of them local businessmen, won approval of a
new city charter. The mayor and council were replaced by an elected, nonpartisan commission.
Other cities soon followed.
City-Manager Plan 561 Besides the Commission Plan, the City-Manager Plan was another plan
used in American cities to replace the charter and mayor system. The City Manager Plan would
have a City Council decide on an outside influence and city planner to help run the city,
therefore an unbiased source to help manage the city.
Tom Johnson Some major reform leaders worked inside regular political systems after
progressives gained influence. Tom Johnson, a famous reform mayor from Cleveland fought
powerful streetcar companies to lower their fares to 3 cents and pushed for the city to own
important public utilities. After he died and lost power, his aide Newton D.Baker became mayor
and helped Cleveland earn a reputation as one of the best cities in the country. Other reform
mayors like Hazen Pingree of Detroit and Samuel “Golden Rule” Jones of Toledo also fought
corrupt party bosses and brought reform ideas into city govs.



[PAGE 161]

Initiative & Referendum Two major reforms first suggested by Populists in the 1890s were
Initiative and the Referendum.
No.1 - Initiative -> let citizens propose new laws and vote on them directly rather than going
through state lawmakers.
No.2 - Referendum -> Allowed voters to approve or reject laws that state legislatures have
already passed.
Direct Primary and Recall Reforms like direct primaries and the recall were meant to weaken
political party bosses and give more power to regular voters.
The primary election let voters choose candidates instead of party leaders choosing them
behind the scenes. In the South some white leaders supported primaries cuz they thought it
would be easier to limit black voters compared to normal elections.
On the other hand, the recall allowed voters to remove an elected official from office by holding
a special election as long as enough people signed a petition.
Robert La Follette One of the most famous reform leaders at the state level. Elected governor in
1900, he helped make Wisconsin a model for progressive reform. He brought in direct
primaries, initiatives and referendums, giving people more power in gov decisions. He regulated
railroads and public utilities, passed workplace safety laws and created compensation for
worker injuries. Taxes were increased on large inherited fortunes and taxes on railroad and big
corporations doubled. He was a strong leader who helped people understand progressiveness
and believed reform should involve the people, media, schools, organizations and politicians.
THIS GUY IS FIGHTING B.O.B (nickname)
Decline of Party Influence Progressive reforms weakened political parties, leading to less voter
turnout rate. In the late 1800s, strong party loyalty meant about 81% of voters participated in
elections. By 1900, that number dropped to 73% and by 1912 it fell to 59% never reaching 70%
ever again.
Why did this happen? - Secret ballots (where voters vote privately without anyone knowing their
choice) made it harder for party bosses to control voters, especially illiterate ones. But it was
mainly due to the rise of “interest groups” like labor unions, business associations, women’s
clubs and social reform groups which had gained influence outside of the party system.
Triangle Shirtwaist Fire In 1911, the Triangle Shirtwaist Factory fire in NYC killed 146 workers,
mostly women that were trapped by locked exits. A state commission studied the workplace
conditions and called for reforms. By 1914, lawmakers like Robert F.Wagner and Alfred E.Smith
passed strong labor laws regulating factories and enforcing safety rules that responded to public
pressure from unions & women’s groups.



[PAGE 162]

W.E.B. Du Bois Born free in Massachusetts and educated at Harvard and Fisk, W.E.B. Du Bois
opposed Booker T. Washington’s approach. In his book The Souls of Black Folk , he criticized
Washington’s desire for limiting black ambitions and accepting segregation. Du Bois argued that
true progress required full political and civil rights.
NAACP Founded Du Bois believed that African Americans should get university education and
be able to get professional careers and fight for civil rights. So in 1905 the guy started the
Niagara Movement and in 1909 it merged with white allies to form the NAACP with him as
leader. It fought for equality in court cases. Du Bois also campaigned against lynching, with the
assistance of Ida Wells Barnett & Jessie Daniel Ames.
WCTU Inspired by the temperance movement before the Civil War, the Women's Christian
Temperance Union was an organization led by Frances Willard that grew to 245k members by
1911. Along with the Anti-Saloon League, they pushed for laws banning saloons as well as the
prohibition of alcohol.
Eighteenth Amendment Support for prohibition grew despite opposition from immigrants and
workers. By 1916, 19 states had banned alcohol. WW1 and moral support from rural
fundamentalists helped pass a national ban. In 1919, the 18th Amendment was ratified, starting
national prohibition in 1920.
Eugenics and Nativism In the early 1900s, many Americans wanted limited immigration. Some
used eugenics, claiming certain races were “better” and that immigrants would spread
undesirable traits. Eugenicists ranked races and pushed forced sterilization for the “unfit,” like
criminals or people with disabilities. People like Madison Grant warned that immigrants from
Eastern Europe, Latin America, and Asia threatened the “purity” of white Americans.
Even people who didn't care about race supported the limits to reduce overcrowding and
unemployment in urban areas. Theodore Roosevelt liked this despite opposition from employers
and immigrant groups. By WW1, nativism grew stronger.
Eugene Debs From 1900-14, socialism gained support in the US more than almost any other
time. The Socialist party grew from <100k voters in 1900 to 1 mil for Eugene V. Debs (their
leader) in 1912. German and Jewish immigrants and some farmers in the south/midwest
supported the socialist party. Socialists won over 1k local & state offices, supported by thinkers
like Lincoln Steffens & Walter Lippmann. Women reformers like Florence Kelley & Frances
Willard liked socialism for its support of peace and workers’ rights.
Wobblies All socialists wanted big changes to the economy, but they disagreed on how much
change was needed and how to achieve it. Some wanted radical European-style Marxism while
others wanted smaller reforms, keeping some private businesses. Some tried to make change
through voting, while others supported strikes and protests.



[PAGE 163]

The IWW (Industrial Workers of the World, their nickname was the Wobblies), led by Big Bill
Haywood, was a radical union that wanted all workers in one union. They also wanted to end
unfair wages. They used strikes instead of politics and were sometimes linked to bombings.
They helped unskilled workers in the west like miners and timber workers. After a big timber
strike in 1917, the gov arrested the leaders and passed laws against them. The union survived
but never became strong again.
Socialism's Demise Most socialists were moderate and wanted slow, peaceful change through
politics. They tried to teach people why change was needed and work within the system. But
WW1 hurt them a lot cuz they didn’t support the war, and the gov and public began attacking
and harassing them.
The Problem of Corporate Centralization Louis Brandeis and his supporters didn’t like big
businesses cuz they were inefficient & unfair. They believed big businesses hurt people’s
freedom, gave too much power to too little people and caused abuse. He said the gov should
make rules to keep big companies from getting too strong.
“Good Trusts” and “Bad Trusts” Some progressives didn’t worry about big businesses as much
as Brandeis did. They cared more about efficiency and thought big companies could be helpful
if controlled. According to them, the gov’s job was to stop abuses and support “good trusts” and
punish “bad trusts”. Since big businesses weren’t going away, the gov needed to keep an eye
on them. Leaders like Herbert Croly and Walter Lippmann wanted better coordination in the
economy, either by businesses working together or by the gov regulating more. Theodore
Roosevelt later supported the idea, saying the gov should supervise and control big companies.
He became a major symbol for national reform.
Roosevelt’s Background Roosevelt kinda created himself a reputation of being a “wild man” cuz
of his energy and bold actions. In NY, he was an energetic lawmaker, in the Dakotas, he hunted
outlaws, as police commissioner, he fought crimes, as assistant secretary of the navy, he
supported US expansion and as a rough rider, he led his famous charge into Kettle Hill, Cuba.
Roosevelt’s Vision of Federal Power Roosevelt worked with progressives who wanted to control,
but not destroy, big businesses. His main goal was to give the government power to investigate
companies and share what they found with the public. The Department of Commerce and
Labor, created in 1903, helped with this through the Bureau of Corporations.
Northern Securities Company Roosevelt wasn’t really against big businesses, but he did take on
a few major trusts to show that the gov could actually do stuff. So in 1902, he used the Sherman
Antitrust Act to break up the Northern Securities Company, a huge railroad monopoly made by
JP Morgan. The Supreme Court agreed in 1904. Roosevelt then filed over 40+ antitrust cases
but didn’t try to stop big businesses from growing overall.
Roosevelt also treated labor disputes more fairly than previous presidents. In a 1902 coal strike,
he pushed both the miners and owners to accept federal arbitration (no clue wtf that is). When



[PAGE 164]

the owner refused, he threatened to seize the mines and the strike ended with higher wages
and shorter hours for the workers, though not with full union recognition. Roosevelt also
sometimes used troops to support employers in other strikes.
Hepburn Act 574 You remember the Interstate Commerce Act? The one that would regulate
railroads in the US? While it was in full effect, the full effect was barely noticeable and the
Railroad industry in the US still proved to be one of the most corrupt and monopoly-driven
businesses in the US. The Hepburn Act instituted early on by Teddy Roosevelt due to popular
demand from the public would strongly increase the power of the Interstate Commerce Act,
allowing for the Act which had already been in power for a while to actually do something.
Pure Food And Drug Act 574 Roosevelt also got the Pure Food and Drug Act enacted, which
would restrict the sale of dangerous medicines. Upton Sinclair’s The Jungle was one of the
largest catalysts for this, which described the horrible conditions of the meatpacking industry
(remember thumbs in sausages?).
Unrelated note: Roosevelt was an early supporter of better working conditions, arguing for an 8
hour workday, compensations for work-related injuries, and stock market regulation
Federal Aid To The West 575 Teddy Roosevelt was a supporter in the American conservation
movement, a movement which would preserve the US and it’s natural habitats. In order to aid
them, Roosevelt backed the Newlands Act, which would provide funding for the construction of
infrastructure, MOST IMPORTANTLY: irrigation projects in the undeveloped West. Nowadays,
we might think of construction as a means of destroying natural habitats if anything, but it
worked back then because by allowing control of the water, more water would be pumped into
the natural habitats of the US.
Competing Conservationist Visions 576 For over a decade, an argument raged between
naturalists and advocates of Hetch Hetchy Dam(Woah this sounds familiar!!). This battle
consumed the energies of our beloved John Muir, and many believe that it led to his death.
The dam was placed on the ballot in 1908, and San Franciscans approved it by a huge margin.
Tennessee Coal And Iron Company 576 got a fuckin long ass grind baby lets get to it
Don’t worry much about the actual term above: the real issue here is that despite Roosevelt’s
pretty progressive and positive changes, the US was still in quite the recession. Banks were
doing terrible and it was clear that there was action that needed to be taken. To combat this, JP
Morgan quickly threw up a bunch of crappy New York banks that work as temporary cover for
the recession. In order to get that money though, JP Morgan (more specifically his company, US
Steel) bought up shares of Tennessee Coal and Iron Company. In order for this acquisition to
happen however, Morgan needed permission and most importantly assurance that an antitrust
action would not happen.



[PAGE 165]

TLDR:
America–big recession. JP Morgan takes action. How? Morgan buys Tennessee Coal and Iron
Company. With money from acquisition Morgan sets up banks. Morgan needs assurance that
the government wouldn’t kill him with antitrust laws. Roosevelt makes sure Morgan doesn’t get
killed with antitrust laws.
—-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
William Howard Taft 577 The president starting in 1909, Taft was Roosevelt’s most trusted
lieutenant and handpicked successor. Progressive reformers believed him to be one of them,
but Taft was also a restrained and moderate man, who had a meticulous regard for legal
processes.
He had great expectations placed on him, and completely failed to meet them. He came out of
the office as the most defeated president of his century, and left his party divided and the
government in the hands of a Democratic administration for the first time in 20 years.
Payne-Aldrich Tariff 577 President Taft called Congress to argue for the lowering of tariffs, which
would appease progressives in the nation. However, Taft basically chickened out when
Congress disagreed with the idea and as such a shitty Payne Aldrich Tariff was implemented
which would only reduce tariffs by a measly amount. Understandably, people got mad by how
passive this guy was playing.
Ballinger-Pinchot Dispute 577 Who is Ballinger? Richard Ballinger is a conservative lawyer who
replaced James Garfield, a conservationist who was put in the position of Secretary of the
Interior by Teddy Roosevelt. The replacement was made by President Taft.
- Ballinger tried to sell Alaskan land to a private entity, which got progressives
understandably angry.
- Louis Glavis and Gifford Pinchot brought the case to Congress
- Taft and congress backed Ballinger in the case
- Louis Glavis and Gifford Pinchot got fired
- Ballinger got out of the case unharmed somehow
- Taft is now the most hated US president
By the way Ballinger tried (unsuccessfully) to remove the protection of 1 million acres of land for
private enterprise before doing this.
“New Nationalism” 578 A new set of principles coined by Theodore Roosevelt. It made clear that
he moved away from the cautious conservatism of the first years of his presidency. He argued
that social justice was possible only through the vigorous efforts of a strong federal government.
He supported graduated income and inheritance taxes, workers’ compensation for industrial
accidents, regulation of the labor of women and children, tariff revision, and firmer regulation of
corporations.
The Progressive Party 579 Since the utter failure of Taft’s presidency left many progressives
longing for an actually good president, Teddy Roosevelt came back, but unfortunately the



[PAGE 166]

election process still turned out to be pretty hard due to Taft’s Republican support. Roosevelt
then called his supporters to Chicago for a convention, launching the Progressive Party and
having him be the presidential candidate. Unfortunately for Roosevelt however, the Democratic
party’s candidate Woodrow Wilson was too popular for him to beat.
Wilson’s “New Freedom” 579 Woodrow Wilson rose to political prominence in an unorthodox
way. He was a professor of political science at Princeton until 1902, when he was named
president of the university. He was then elected governor of New Jersey in 1910, where he
demonstrated a commitment to reform. As a presidential candidate in 1912, Wilson presented a
new progressive program called the “New Freedom.” (It was basically the opposite of
Roosevelt’s New Nationalism when it came to government size)
Lowering The Tariff 579 Wilson managed to ease both Democratic and Progressives, lowering
the protective tariff. However to make up for the loss of revenue from the tariff, congress
imposed an income tax of 1 percent for Americans earning more than 4k annually, increasing
depending on your income.
Federal Reserve Act 579 The Federal Reserve Act was passed by Congress in 1913, and
would institute 12 regional banks, and would issue a paper currency. Most importantly, Federal
Reserve notes were backed by the government and therefore served as a stable currency. This
system was highly successful, and solved a big problem with banking in the US that Taft and
Roosevelt had tried to solve years prior.
Child-Labor Laws 581 Wilson supported the Keating-Owen Act, a federal law which would
regulate child labor, prohibiting children from crossing state lines. This Act was not supported by
the Court. Another attempt was a law which would put a big tax on child labor, which too was
dismissed by the Court.
—----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Racial and Economic Basis of Roosevelt’s Diplomacy 584 Roosevelt was a fan of the differing
“civilized and uncivilized” nations. (basically anybody that was white and not Slavic was
“civilized” while anybody that wasn’t was “uncivilized”) Therefore, Roosevelt’s foreign policy was
that he would go and intervene in the “backwards” affairs in “uncivilized” nations, and leave the
“civilized” nations alone. Just sounds like modern American foreign policy to me.
“Great White Fleet” 585 While Roosevelt won the Nobel Peace Prize for his help in ending the
Russo-Japanese War, relations between the US and Japan steadily deteriorated. Japan was not
the preeminent naval power in the Pacific and soon began to exclude American trade from
many of the territories it controlled.
To show Japan the power of the US, Roosevelt sent 16 battleships of the new American navy
(the Great WHite Fleet) on a journey around the world that included a call on Japan.
“Roosevelt Corollary” 585 Why does the textbook decide to wheel back to Roosevelt? Who
knows. You remember the Monroe Doctrine? If you do, look at it again. When Venezuela started



[PAGE 167]

to stop paying debt to Germany, Germany blockaded its ports. Roosevelt then immediately
threatened Germany, forcing their navy to piss off. This was because Roosevelt believed that
the American continent was to be controlled by the US, and having Germany show prowess in
the region was therefore ruining said control, going back to the Monroe Doctrine, Roosevelt
basically made a new version of it, this time in the name “Roosevelt Corollary”. Roosevelt used
his Corollary to gain control of the Dominican Republic, and then replaced it’s corrupt
government with another corrupt government, the US.
Platt Amendment 586 In 1902, the US granted political independence to Cuba, but only after the
new government agreed to the Platt Amendment to its constitution.
The Platt Amendment barred Cuba from making treaties with other nations(Basically gave US
control of its foreign policies); it gave the US the right to intervene in Cuba to “preserve
independence, life, and property”; and it also required Cuba to permit American naval stations
on its territory.
Panamanian Revolt 587 Roosevelt was pissed that the Colombian senate refused to ratify an
agreement that gave the US perpetual rights to a canal zone across Colombia. (Keep in mind
that the Americans pressured the previous Colombian representative to agree to this). So
Roosevelt began to look for ways to bypass the Colombian government, and he found an ally in
the chief engineer of the French canal project, Philippe Bunau-Varilla.
In November 1903, a revolution began. Unlike the others that preceded this revolution, the US
backed this one, and American soldiers prevented Colombian forces from suppressing the
rebellion and, three days later, Roosevelt recognized Panama as an independent nation.
Intervention In Nicaragua 587 Quick note: Philander C Knox was a dude that worked to “Extend
American investments into less developed regions” (that’s what the textbook says, pretty sure
it’s just trying to put something else into nicer words but you take that however you wanna).
During Taft’s presidency, a revolution broke out in Nicaragua, and the US sided with the rebels,
who received American military aid. Knox then encouraged US banks to offer loans to the new
Nicaraguan government (this basically means that with the loans, the US could be in control of
Nicaragua banks). Nicaraguans then rebelled against, this time against the pro-American
government, and Taft then landed troops in the country again, this time to support the
government and to put down the people. Classic American foreign policy.
Wilson’s Moral Diplomacy 588 During Wilson’s presidency, Mexico was going through…a time
period of leaders. All you gotta know here is that Victoriano Huerta is the one to end up on top,
and Wilson doesn’t like that. With the help of American businesses, Huerta becomes a full on
military dictator, and now Wilson is getting a little angrier. He orders Huerta to fire a 21 gun
salute to the US flag, and Mexico understandably refuses. Wilson then sends troops to the
Mexican port of Veracruz. (cont on Veracruz)



[PAGE 168]

Veracruz 588 With the intention of a 0 violence seizing of the port, Wilson is shocked when his
own troops kill 126 Mexican soldiers, and is now on the brink of war. Another thing this causes
is the rise of power of some guy named Carranza, I don’t know why this shit is really confusing .
Now what you gotta know is that Carranza is in power, not Huerta. Wilson didn’t want to directly
intervene, instead opting for backing Pancho Villa, who was leading a rebel army against the
Carranza government. Wilson then backs out of support, and Villa kills a bunch of Americans,
and now Villa is the one that is opposing America and the Carranza government needing to side
with the US. On to the next term.
Intervention in Mexico 589 With the permission of the Carranza government, Wilson ordered
General John J. Pershing to lead an American expeditionary force across the Mexican border in
pursuit of Villa. They never found him, but they did engage in two skirmishes with Carranza’s
army, in which 40 Mexicans and 12 Americans died. The US and Mexico were once again on
the brink of war, but at the last minute Wilson, who was now focused on the international crisis
in Europe, withdrew from Mexico and granted formal recognition to the Carranza regime.
Competing Alliances 589 With that fiasco out of the way, we look across the Atlantic, where
tensions are getting fucking high. Europe is divided into 2 camps, Britain, France and Russia, vs
Germany, Austria-Hungary, and Italy.
Economic Ties To Britain 589 The US sides with Britain, as we all know. This is due to the
economic ties that they have, which is strengthened by the fact that Britain’s blockade on the
German ports leads to the US only being able to trade with Britain. So the US’s initial standing
of impartial and not taking sides kinda doesn’t work.
Lusitania 590 Germans torpedoed the boat, the US got mad, and according to some historians,
the US lied about the cargo on board. This was pretty much what sold the president on going
into the war, and the US would soon enter WWI
1916 Election 590 As the War kept on going, the US was seemingly looking more and more like
it was to join the war on the side of the British due to the German tensions with the US. Still, in
1916 an election happened and was set to be one of the most important in US history. Due to
Wilson’s ability to keep the US out of the war for his first term, using the chant “We didn’t go to
war!” Wilson barely managed to win the election by 23 electoral votes and 600,000 popular
votes. A close election is needed.
NOW, just to be clear, Wilson actually kinda does wanna go to war. There is too much to be
gained by going to war, after all, the US is already making huge bank off of selling weapons to
Britain.
Zimmermann Telegram 591 Intercepted telegram from the Germans to Mexico, in which the
Germans offer Mexico a chunk of the US if they side with Germany. The British intercepted this,
and the publication of it brought about great outrage in the US.



[PAGE 169]

Stalemate 591 Neither side was gaining any ground in the war, and the Allies looked to the US
for help. Wilson was happy to oblige, and called on the US to wage war “without stint or limit”.
Russian Revolution 592 The Bolshevik Revolution happened in 1917, and Vlad Lenin
negotiated peace with the Central powers, withdrawing troops from the Western Front. The
Entente Powers had just lost a powerful ally.
Selective Service Act 592 SLIGHT ISSUE FOR THE US JOINING THE WAR: Their army was
tiny. Barely 200k total active duty soldiers split into the Army and National Guard, and neither
group was in shape to fight. The Selective Service Act was one of the first National Drafts in the
nation’s history, bringing 3 million men into the army and 2 million voluntarily, forming the
American Expeditionary Force. One cool thing was that Women were also allowed into the Army
for the first time in US history, but not allowed to participate in combat.
Another funny note: the first ever IQ test was used to measure the Intelligence Quotient of the
soldiers, but ended up putting basically all African Americans and half of the White soldiers in
the “moron” category due to a lack of education.
African American Soldiers 593 Treated horribly by Americans, even though many received high
medals of honor in other countries. These soldiers served in segregated units under white
commanders.
General John Pershing 593 The engagement of these forces in combat was intense but brief.
Not until the spring of 1918 were significant numbers of American ground troops available for
battle. Eight months later, the war was over. Under the command of General John J. Pershing,
who led the unsuccessful pursuit of Pancho Villa, the American Expeditionary Force joined the
existing Allied Forces.
Château-Thierry 594 During the war, American troops did not have to go through nearly as
1much of the trench hell that their French and British allies had to go through, and the amount of
bloodshed either side went through to gain just an inch of ground was to the point that by the
time WW1 was over, Germany had lost 15% of their army, and France 18% of their army. Due to
help from American forces, the French were able to take Chateau-Thierry in a matter of 6
weeks. It was with American intervention that the Entente had managed to gain ground so
quickly from 1918 onwards. Why the US couldn’t have done it sooner to lower the amount of
bloodshed is…not a mystery. The US wanted to sell weapons and make money, let's be honest.
Meuse-Argonne Offensive 594 On September 26, the American fighting force joined a large
assault against the Germans in the Argonne Forest that lasted nearly seven weeks. By the end
of October, despite terrible weather, they had helped push the Germans back toward their own
border and had cut the enemy’s major supply lines to the front.
High Casualty Rates 595 Here’s a tally of death on both sides of the war: The French lost 1.7
million. The Germans 2 million. Austria Hungary, 1.5 million. Italy lost 460000, Russia 1.7



[PAGE 170]

million. Turkish death toll 325000. Britain lost a third of their young to mid 20-year old
population. Despite joining late, the US lost 110000 lives to the war. This doesn’t even account
for the number of people that came home with irreversible physical harm that would leave them
unable to work for the rest of their lives. It is in this war that the term “shell-shock” is coined. Due
to the constant explosion and artillery in the war, along with the horrors of watching your best
friend’s face get torn off, many soldiers came home in irreparable mental states of shock.
Financing The War 596 By the time the war ended, the US had spent 32 billion dollars for
expenses directly related to the conflict. This was very surprising for the time, the entire federal
budget rarely exceeded 1 billion dollars before 1915, and in 1910 the nation’s entire GDP had
been only 35 billion dollars.
The US relied on two devices to finance the war, first, it launched a major drive to solicit loans
from the American people by selling “Liberty(Mutual™) Bonds” to the public. By 1920, the sale
of bonds produced 23 billion dollars. The other way was taxes–which brought in an additional
sum of nearly 10 billion dollars. Some of this was from the “excess profits” of corporations, but
much more from new, steeply increased income and inheritance taxes that ultimately rose as
high as 70 percent in some brackets.
War Industries Board 596 Financing the war was equally as hard as fighting it, and the War
Industries Board was created in 1917 to figure out where money for the war would go. Bernard
Baruch was put in control of the place by Wilson, and he basically had full control of the whole
thing, sorting out the US’s finances for the war. This wasn’t all sunshine and rainbows however,
since the agency was plagued by mismanagement and often served to better the interests of
businesses, not the military or the war effort.
Lessons Of The Managed Economy 596 The effort to organize the economy for war produced
amazing results. Hoover’s efficient organization of domestic food supplies, William McAdoo’s
success in untangling the railroads, and many more. However, in other areas, progress was so
slow that the war was over before many of the supplies ordered for it were ready. Even so,
many leaders of both government and industry emerged from the experience convinced of the
advantages of a close, cooperative relationship between the public and private sectors. Some
hoped to continue the wartime experiments in peacetime.
Ludlow Massacre 597 Despite making jobs for the economy, you gotta remember these are
American working jobs, and they aren’t fun to do whatsoever. In Ludlow Colorado, 1914, a
group of workers walked out of the mines on strike with their families, eventually moving to tents
that they set up due to being evicted. The militia was called in to initially protect the workers, but
as you can guess from the title…they ended up siding with the employers.
The militia attacked the workers, killing 39 including 11 children.



[PAGE 171]

“Great Migration” 598 One of the most important social changes of the war years, the “Great
Migration” was the movement of hundreds of thousands of African Americans from the rural
South into northern industrial cities. Like most migrations, there were both push and pull factors.
The push was the poverty, indebtedness, racism, and violence many black men and women
experienced in the South. The pull was the prospect of factory jobs in the urban North and the
opportunity to live in communities where blacks enjoyed more freedom and autonomy.
Race Riots 598 Due to the Great Migration, Whites got increasingly angry at the fact that Black
communities were growing and were beginning to move into predominantly White
neighborhoods. This incited violence. In 1917, a white mob burned down houses, shot
residents, with a death toll of 40 or more African Americans dying in the massacre.
READING QUIZ#4 INFO STARTS HERE
To future Juniors, know about Alice Paul and what she wrote.
Woman’s Peace Party 599 Many in the US all believed the war to be a conflict between rich
capitalist nations for commercial power (true), and in 1915 Carrie Chapman Catt created the
Woman’s Peace Party. This however, created tension between US women, as the Peace Party
was opposing the Woman’s Suffrage Association’s pro-war views.
Maternal Opposition To War 599 This is just saying the same thing as the term right above ^^.
But if you want me to go in depth, a hard ass quote is that “the mother half of humanity” was not
in support of the war.
Yifei is stopping here today. I am tired.
I got it 👍
READING QUIZ#3 INFO ENDS HERE
CPI 602 The Committee on Public Information(CPI), was a government effort to rally public
support via propaganda. It was directed by Denver journalist George Creel, who spoke openly
of the importance of achieving social unity. The CPI supervised the distribution of tons of
pro-war literature and plastered the walls of offices, shops, theaters, schools, churches, and
homes.



[PAGE 172]

Espionage Act 602 ooo espionage!! This basically said that if someone is suspected of spying
on war efforts, they would receive harsh punishments like jail time, or even death. There was
also a ban on “seditious” material from the mails, which are statements that might “impugn the
motives of the government and thus encourage insubordination,” or anything that suggested
“that the government is controlled by Wall Street or munitions manufacturers, or any other
special interests.” More specifically, “espionage” referred to just about anything that was not in
support of the US in WW1.
Sedition Act 602 An extension of the Espionage Act. It expanded the meaning of the Espionage
act to make any public expression of opposition to the war illegal; in practice, it allowed officials
to prosecute anyone who criticized the president or the government.
Repressing Dissent 602 State and local governments, corporations, universities, and private
citizens contributed to the climate of repression as well. Mobs sprang up to “discipline” those
who dared challenge the war. A dissident Protestant clergyman in Cincinnati was pulled from his
bed one night, dragged to a nearby hill, and whipped “in the name of the women and children of
Belgium” by a mob.
“100 Percent Americanism” 602 Groups of citizens who considered themselves “respectable”
tasked themselves with the responsibility of weeding out the “disloyal”. These vigilante terrorist
groups were groups such as the American Protective League and the National Security League,
who would often bring violence to people they considered “disloyal” such as Irish, who were
picked on because historically Irish people had been in opposition to the British, and Jews since
there were anti-semetic views and laws in Russia. Most of all, German Americans were heavily
targeted, despite many German Americans being possibly the most loyal to the American flag,
renaming their foods to stuff like “liberty cabbage” or “liberty sausage” when the war started.
This started a new wave of anti-immigration and Xenophobia in the US.
Wilson’s Idealistic Vision 603 On January 8th, 1918, Woodrow Wilson presented his 14 points
on why he is fighting WW1. The 14 points were not only a set of points that would justify
Wilson’s decision to stay in the war, but most importantly present a peace plan for the
near-to-end war and how Europe would recover and borders would change in Europe. The
important thing to note here is that by presenting the 14 points, the US is therefore declaring
control over the rebuilding of Europe after the war, similar to how the US would declare control
over Japan’s reconstruction after WWII.
Lenin’s Challenge 603 Another big reason behind Wilson’s 14 Points was made was because
Lenin just 3 weeks prior had made a similar speech, promising to help Europe and bring major
reform and similar peace as soon as the war was over. Wilson saw this as directly rivaling US
control of reform in Europe, and as such Wilson made it clear that Lenin would not be allowed
full control over the reform of Europe, and that the US would try their best to take that control.
Allied Intransigence 603 Quick Note: Intransigence basically means stubbornness. As the war
was looking more and more like a win for the Entente, negotiations for peace were already



[PAGE 173]

being made. Or rather, arrangements for peace. This is because the US was basically in full
control of peace deals, largely due to the US putting themselves on a moral pedestal but also
because after Britain had lost a third of their young men, and the French had lost similar
numbers, the 2 countries were very eager to see a full decimation of Germany, and a capture
and execution of the Kaiser.
The Big Four 604 As much as the French and British government were eager to beat down the
Germans who had, by the way, lost similar numbers as the French and British, the general
populace was very eager to see peace. When US President Woodrow Wilson arrived in Paris,
records say the largest crowd in French history was there to greet him. The Big Four refers to
the 4 figures who met in Paris in December of 1918: David Lloyd George representing Britain,
George Clemenceau representing France, and Vittorio Orlando representing Italy. Besides
discussing the general peace of Europe for the post war era, there were also talks about the
Bolsheviks. Soon later, the US landed troops to assist some 60k Czech troops to escape the
Soviet Union, and despite wanting to stay out of conflict, it became increasingly more difficult for
the US and the new Soviet Union to see eye to eye. Woodrow Wilson would not recognize the
Bolshevik as the Russian government, and from here on out until WWII, there was no world
where the US and Soviet Union would dare see peace between one another.
Wilson’s Retreat 604 Wilson was not able to capture the full support of all the European nations
in the Paris Peace meeting, and unable to get all of his wanted reforms. For one, many of the
European nations were unwilling to get rid of their colonies, and if they were, another country
would eagerly take up the former colony. Such is the case with Germany, which gave up their
Asian colonies, but Japan immediately took those colonies for their own.
Reparations 604 The next topic in the Paris Peace meeting were the reparations to be paid.
Initially, it was agreed that Germany would pay a staggering 56 billion dollars, which was later
lowered to 9 billion. Even with such a drastic cut from the initial amount, the battered Germany
couldn’t pay it off.
League Of Nations 605 The most important part of the Paris Peace meeting was the creation of
the League Of Nations. This org would attempt to keep peace between the countries in the
league, oversee International Affairs, and prevent wars.
Wilson’s Intransigence 605 Note: Intransigence again, means stubbornness. Now one thing we
haven’t yet considered is the views of Americans back at home and how they would view the
Paris Peace treaty. Americans were not too happy, since America had been in a period of
European isolation before and the sudden change of pace did not sit with them very well. Wilson
attempted to convince the Senate that his actions were justified but was met with harsh
criticism. Wilson then presented the Versailles Treaty (named after the palace where the
negotiations had taken place). Wilson would not take no for an answer and also refused any
sort of compromise about the treaty. Records say that it was due to Wilson’s deteriorating health
that he was so hell-bent on keeping the Versailles Treaty exactly as it was.



[PAGE 174]

Henry Cabot Lodge 605 The Senate and Wilson were now at a standoff. Neither side was willing
to budge, Wilson would not take any criticism about the Versailles Treaty, and the Senate would
not take the treaty as it was without some sort of compromise. Henry Cabot Lodge was the one
that would oppose Wilson the most, citing how he straight up hated Wilson.
League Membership Rejected 606 Wilson refused to consider any amendments to the
proposals to join the League, and the treaty died out as nobody could really vote it into
existence, and people stopped caring.
New Social Environment 606 People were not really caring about the Peace Conference, as
there were a couple of problems back at home to deal with. The Economy went hahaha boom
and had a huge postwar recession, and most of American became more conservative to cope
with it.
Postwar Recession 606 Yeah, during the 1910s the stock market was doing well, but then the
economic bubble burst, and the entire market went kaboom. Millions of people lost their jobs,
and many went bankrupt. Making things even worse, the factories that were still standing used
this opportunity to regress and start paying less for workers and stuff like that
Boston Police Strike 607 There were a lot of strikes in 1919, and one of the more notable ones
was the Boston Police Strike. Police went on strike for better pay, and that led to a massive
amount of looting, murder, and like you know that one really bad 2010 movie about crime being
legal? Basically that happened. Eventually to fix things Boston FIRED THE ENTIRE POLICE
FORCE and hired a new, less strike prone, police force.
Steelworkers’ Strike Defeated 607 Steelworkers would have the largest strike in American
History when 350000 people walked off their jobs. Too bad everyone was desperate for jobs so
there were a lot of strikebreakers, and also there was a riot where a lot of people had died. The
factories endured the strike for long enough that everyone kinda gave up…
New Black Attitudes 608 Many African Americans expected better treatment in America given
that they just FOUGHT A WAR, but uh yeah. Things did not get better. This led to a bitterness in
many African American Communities, that led to a determination to fight for their rights.
However conveniently, the South also started to lynch people, and many African Americans
were fired in order to make space for White workers during the economic turmoil.
Also many White workers believed that African Americans being willing to work for less made
their unions less effective, leading to even more tension
Chicago Race Riots 608 The wartime riots in East St. Louis and elsewhere were a prelude to a
summer of much worse racial violence in 1919. In Chicago, a black teenager swimming in lake
Michigan on a hot July day happened to drift toward a white beach. Whites on shore then
stoned him(threw stones at him) unconscious, where he sank and drowned.



[PAGE 175]

This led to a mob of black people attacking white neighborhoods, and a mob of white people
attacking black neighborhoods. The whole summer was like this, earning it the title of “The Red
Summer of 1919”.
Marcus Garvey’s Black Nationalism 609 Marcus Garvey, a Jamaican, began to attract a wide
American following amongst poor urban black folks. He had an ideology of black nationalism, in
which African Americans were encouraged to take pride in their own achievements and to
develop an awareness of their African heritage.
Garvey also founded the United Negro Improvement Association (UNIA), which launched a
chain of black-owned grocery stores and encouraged for the creation of other black businesses.
Popular Antiradicalism 610 Many Americans were not very up for the whole radical change
thing, especially after just fighting a war. Many Americans wanted to maintain the norm, and this
caused the “Red Scare”, an anti communist and anti immigrant movement. Many Immigrants
were jumped and discriminated against, and uh apparently some guy got Castrated according to
the textbook…
Palmer Raids 610 A series of Raids orchestrated by General A. Mitchell Palmer and J. Edgar
Hoover, they were intended to uncover large caches of weapons and explosives, but they only
found three pistols. Most of those arrested were released, but 500 people who weren’t citizens
were deported.
Sacco And Vanzetti 610 Sacco and Vanzetti are italian immigrants that are convicted of murder
on questionable at best evidence. However, since they are A. Immigrants B. Anarchists, both
public opinion and the FUCKING JUDGE want these guys dead. Soo oop! Guilty! Death
sentence!!
This really highlights how fucked up the Red Scare was
Return to “Normalcy” 611 In the 1920 election, a number of big name candidates were running,
such as Woodrow Wilson, James M Cox, Warren G. Harding (an Ohio govenor) and FDR, who
at the time was just a Secretary of the Navy. Out of all of these though, the most popular was
Warren Gamaliel Harding, some random Ohio senator who offered “normalcy”, something which
Americans after WW1 so desperately wanted. Winning every state in the south and 61 percent
of the popular vote, Harding added extra winnings by making big progress in congress as well.
Thus marked a new era of the US.
Normalcy (the term I put here) - Restoring pre-WW1 life focusing on isolation, economic growth
and limited government intervention
Sources of the boom 615 America’s economy got a huge boom after WW1, establishing the
United states as a powerful country to be reckoned with. They were basically the only country



[PAGE 176]

with enough money to ensure a safe economy and country for the next 10 years. Automobiles
became one of the most important industries and in return, people bought a lot of cars and
materials resulting in more roads being constructed.
Radio 615 Before the 1920s, radios could only emit pulses but through modulation, it became
possible to emit speech and music through radios. Modulation later was used to make
televisions etc
Early Computers 616 1920s-1930s, English and American scientists turned “primitive
calculating machines” (calculators basically) into big brain calculators that could do more
complex tasks. Some people at Harvard and MIT made this computer that could multiply
eleven-digit numbers in three seconds, but I don't think that is relevant.
Modern Administrative Systems 616 General Motors(car company)’s founder, William Durant,
didnt have a formal management system so when leadership of GM passed onto Alfred P. Sloan
he developed the Modern Systems which increased efficiency of GM and smaller companies
that adopted it aswell were able to expand further.
Modern Admin. System - filing and record keeping, office correspondence, visitor and phone call
management, internal communication, financial management and other administrative duties.
Trade Associations 617 this one hurt my brain - it cant be that bad WHAT
Uh. Industries that were less likely to be monopolized decided that instead of consolidating
companies into a big conglomerate, industries would get together to set standards and stuff.
yeah?
Welfare Capitalism 617 Employers wanted workers to not have as bad working conditions to
avoid things that could disrupt their labor so they improved some working conditions. Henry
Ford, shortened the work week, increased wages and employed payed vacations. Steel
companies had better sanitation and safety.
Hard times for Organized Labor 617 The fact that everyone is broke, plus the fact that a lot of
unions couldn’t adapt to the current economic conditions meant that they were weak as hell.
Unions rarely considered the majority of unskilled workers, and kept on focusing on small
groups of skilled workers. So you could say that Unions were weak because of a SKILL ISSUE
AHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHA.
Pink Collar Jobs 617 Large and growing part of the workforce was women, women basically did
low paying pink collar jobs like as secretaries, salesclerks, telephone, operators, etc. They were
paid much lower bc they were often discriminated against and labor organizations weren’t
interested.
Ngl i was looking for the sussex pledge i dont think its in the text book but its a funny name so
heres a funny little guy the what pledge??????



[PAGE 177]

🧌
this is larry nuh uh plus nobody can see it unless they are on mac/ios
nuh uh i have a chrome book !
Philip Randolph 620 The AFL(American Federation of Labor) often would try and discriminate
against women and people of color. The Brotherhood of Sleeping Car Porter was founded by
Philip to fight for the black work force. This led to better wages and better working hours for
black people.
Protecting the Open Shop 621 The open shop is a system where no worker is required to join a
union. Protection of the open shop was needed because corporate leaders spread the idea that
unionism(protection of workers rights) was harmful to corporations.
Protection of the open shop created the “American Plan” which was soon endorsed by the
National Association of Manufactures in 1920. This campaign busted many unions across the
US.
Mechanized Farming 622 What’s better than farming? Farming with Machines! Tractors,
combines, and other mechanical devices allow for more land (35 million acres) to be viable
farmland. In addition the creation of pesticides and fertilizers would lead to even more food
being produced.
● However, the population was not growing as fast as the Agriculture Industry, leading to a
massive decrease in Food prices as the supply greatly outmatched the demand.
“Parity” 622 Because of the food prices being stupidly and unsustainably low, many farmers
supported the idea of Parity. Parity is pretty much the idea that the government would set the
price of food at a price where farmers would always recoup their funds no matter what the
markets might look like.
McNary Haugen Bill 622 The McNary Haugen Bill was a bill that would introduce parity for grain,
cotton, tobacco, and rice, but the bill got vetoed by Calvin Coolidge. Twice even. damn.
Growing Mass Consumption 622 Overall, the urban living of the 1920s led to a lot more people
having the buying power to purchase goods that weren’t directly tied to survival (food, rent, etc).
Middle Class Families began to be able to buy luxuries like Washing Machines, Fridges, and
vacuum cleaners. Men started to buy watches, and Women began to buy lots of makeup.



[PAGE 178]

But most importantly, Americans bought a whole lotta cars.
Social Impact of the Automobile 622 The Automobile affected American culture greatly. People
began to have the opportunity to travel to places far away to visit friends and family and stuff. In
addition, many began to travel to other cities for vacations and stuff.
The Automobile also led to the creation of suburbs near major cities, as people were able to
commute now.
It also led to a lot of independence between young people and their families, as they could
move away much easier.
The Man Nobody Knows 623 The man who erased his name???? (John Yakuza??)
The Man Nobody Knows is a book made by some advertising guy that portrayed Jesus as a
very good salesman that took 12 men from the gutter and turned them into a business that
conquered the world. What the heck. Just think of it as the bible but like business themed.
The book basically combined the bible with the new consumerist culture.
Mass Circulation Magazines 623 Cheap Magazines that were easily circulated allowed
information to travel to rural areas very fast. In addition, it made it so information was more
easily spread, becoming an alternative to newspapers (imagine getting a summary of the news
once a month kinda)
Hollywood 623 Movies were becoming a very popular form of media, and more than 100 million
people saw movies in the 1930s. Hollywood was a place where a lot of movies were made, and
apparently it was also a really bad place to work but the Book doesn’t say why. So then they
created the Motion Picture Association, and had some guy named Will Hays decide to censor
whatever??? What is the book cooking here bruh.
Harry Emerson Fosdick 624 Name aside, The new consumer culture led to new ideas about
religion. Harry Emerson Fosdick was a christian who believed that the basis of Christianity was
to develop people into better people, rather than just a thing of faith. He wrote a book about it
too.
People also started taking religion less seriously.
Limited Opportunities for Women 624 In the 1920s, people began to get used to the idea of
educated women. However, the opportunities for work for women were still very limited. Women
were often confined to “feminine” fields of work like fashion, education, and social work.
Despite the idea that women were working a lot more, most married women really still stayed at
home.



[PAGE 179]

“Companionate Marriages” 625 For many women, marriage became less of a survival or having
kids type of thing, but instead people began marrying for more fulfilling and happy lives!!! Wow
what a great idea guys! “Companionate Marriages” were basically women being in marriages
that made them happier. Also people had sex a lot more because of birth control. yeah.
Birth Control 625 an Idea pioneered by Margret Sanger , Birth control was the idea that people
could control their reproductive rights! Sanger worked to persuade many to use birth control,
arguing that women should be able to get enjoyment out of sex without having to have a kid.
Because of her actions, birth control would become a much more popular (but still controversial)
thing overall.
Equal Rights Amendment 626 An Amendment being argued for that would give women Equal
Rights to men? I think so at least, the book never explicitly says what the Amendment would
entail…
It never really passed congress and some feminists didn’t like it for whatever reasons.
Youth Culture 627 Instead of being forced to work in the MINES or the FACTORIES, people
began to realize that educating kids and letting them grow up with other kids was, in fact, a good
thing.Schools became more popular, and began to help prepare kids for the future. In addition,
schools began to have sports programs and clubs and stuff.
Sheppard Towner Act 627 An Act that would provide funds to the states for prenatal care and
child support. However, some feminists did not like the bill because it would discourage birth
control efforts, and the fact it would allow for unlicensed doctors to care for kids.
Lost Generation Critique 628
The Lost generation refers to the generation of still pretty young people that returned from
fighting WWI. Many of these people would be shell shocked and come back from the war jaded
and pessimistic about the world around them. Coming back to a US that focused on materialism
and consumerism led to the idea that the war was fought for nothing. Many books and movies
were made that suggested that the war was pointless, and that people were justified in not
fighting the war.
H.L. Mencken 629 H.L. Mencken was a journalist whose magazines– S mart Set and American
Mercury – ridiculed everything most middle class Americans held dear. This included: religion,
politics, the arts, and even democracy. Mencken could not believe, or so he claimed, that
“civilized life was possible under a democracy.”
Rejecting Success 630 Other authors also shared similar views to Mencken. Sinclair Lewis, the
first American to win a Nobel Prize in Literature, wrote a series of novels where he lashed out at
various aspects of modern society. Author F. Scott Fitzgerald also attacked The American
Dream™ with The Great Gatsby . We’ve all read it, so i’m not going to explain how he attacked
The American Dream™.



[PAGE 180]

African American Pride 631 Many educated African Americans made a significant impact in pop
culture at the time. Authors had the biggest impact, with many being picked up by white
publishers and developed readership of all races.
Failure of Prohibition 631 Prohibition did not in fact, solve domestic violence, crime, and turn
the world into
Realistically, the only thing Prohibition did was reduce drinking and also have a bunch of
problems.
First, they had 1500 people hired to enforce prohibition. For the ENTIRE COUNTRY. Yeah. also
people just turned to crime to get beer and stuff.
Alcohol and Organized Crime 631 HEY BOSS SIC YOUR GOONS ON HIM.
Yeah, prohibition led to a lot of crime groups trying to sell alcohol and make money off of it.
Since it was illegal to sell alcohol, and people still wanted it, many groups of criminals would
fight each other for the ability to sell alcohol and get rich. Al Capone would make a name for
himself, leading to the deaths of 250+ people.
National Origins Act of 1924 631 The National Origins Act banned immigration from East Asia
Entirely. Banned. Gone! Mods, prevent the Japanese and Chinese from immigrating to the US.
It also reduced the amount of Europeans able to enter the US as well. Fun!.
The New Klan 632 Guess who’s back. Back again. The KKK’s back. Goddammit. In 1915, White
southerners decided to restart the Klan, with Nativist Ideals. The movie The Birth of a Nation
made the Klan very popular. The Klan also had a new view, instead of focusing on African
Americans, they focused on Catholics, Jews, and immigrants.
Defending “Traditional Values” 633 The Klan was not just against immigrants, but against the
changing or removal of “Traditional Values”. WHich meant like, not being white christians, and
drinking alcohol? Basically they were against a lot of the societal changes during the 1920s.
David Stephenson 633 The klan declined again, especially after a lot of their leaders turned out
to be pedophiles and rapists. Who would have guessed the hate group leaders are a bunch of
sick fucks?
Davis Stephenson was the head of the Indiana Klan, and raped a secretary, kidnapped her, and
then let her die eating poison. .
yeah.



[PAGE 181]

Scope’s Monkey Trial 634 John T Scopes is a teacher arrested for the highly dangerous and
extreme crime of teaching that the Bible wasn’t everything. More specifically, he taught the
theory of evolution. He was sued by the state of Tennessee, and this case became a worldwide
phenomenon.
At the time, there was a lot of Religious Fundamentalism, which basically meant that the Bible
was the answer to everything, and that teaching science was bad because it went against the
bible.
Yeah Scopes loses but then the case gets dismissed.
Also the case makes a lot of religious fundamentalism look stupid, which led to the movement
dying out. (thank god) (wait a minute…)
Al Smith 635 Al Smith is the Democratic nominee in 1928, but some people in the south don’t
like him, so he has a mixed level of support in the South. This mixed support leads to Herbert
Hoover, his Republican Opponent, sweeping him and winning by like, a lot.
Teapot Dome 636 Warren Harding was kinda a lame president, and apparently he had a lot of
vices. He appointed a lot of his supporters to cabinet positions, and turns out… Corruption!
Alber B Fall, was caught selling the Teapot Dome (place in Wyoming) private oil reserves to
some businessmen for some “help” with his massive amount of loans. He was convicted of
bribery and thrown in jail for a year.
Calvin Coolidge 636 Calvin Coolige is the president AFTER William Harding, and he is a very
puritanical guy, who was very honest as well. Like Harding, he was kinda a loser president who
didn’t do much. He believed the government should interfere as little as possible in the Nation’s
affairs, and uh yeah he’s president. yup.
Andrew Mellon 637 Mellon is a Steel and aluminium baron who leads to a lot of taxes on
corporations being cut.
Hoover’s “Associationism” 637 Herbert Hoover was a president who believed in
Associationalism, the creation of national organizations of industries. These Organization would
regulate business and help marketing and whatever.
READING QUIZ#4 INFO ENDS HERE



[PAGE 182]

READING QUIZ#5 INFO STARTS HERE
(Small note: For Hunneke/Bellas (and maybe Miller), review previous assignments too. Ref:
Canvas)
I would recommend looking at the Mexican American and Filipino stuff as well
“Brain Trust” (not in textbook) - FDR’s advisers who crafted New Deal Programs
The Three R’s for the new deal (not in textbook) - Relief, recovery and reform
Relief - Feed, clothe, house and then put people to work right away.
- FERA, CCC, CWA, WPA, HOLC, NYA, Federal Arts Project, Federal Project No. 1
Recovery - help the economy and people recover, regain success (employment programs).
- AAA, NRA, TVA, IRA, PWA
Reform - Put system in place to make sure this type of catastrophe never happens again.
- SSA, Wagner Act (NLRA), Glass-Steagal Act, FHA, SEA, FDIC, FLSA
FLSA - Federal Labor Standards Act established minimum wage and no child labor after the
failure of the NRA/NIRA. (Think this as more for workers)
Wagner Act (NLRA) - basically replaced the NIRA by permanently protecting worker’s rights to
unionize and bargain collectively. (This this as more for unions)
Reconstruction Finance Corporation - Under Hoover, the corporation provided emergency
financing to banks, railroads and industries in the great depression.
Smoot Hawley Tariff - tariff by Hoover on 20k imported goods by 20-60%.
Repatriate - Deportation | Tydings McDuffie Act - Filipino Independence for 10 years, 50
Filipinos allowed to enter the US annually, extension of the 1924 immigration act | Filipino
Repatriation Act (‘35) - Paid passage for Filipinos to leave America.
Stock Market Boom 640 In the 1920s, the stock market was going up a LOT with many shares
being bought, and a lot of people offering CREDIT to buy MORE STOCKS with. So people are
borrowing money to buy stocks with fluctuating prices…
“Black Tuesday” 640 On October 29, the stock market went bust, as everyone started dumping
all their stocks. The Index dropped like 43 points, and a lot of companies failed. WHILE MANY
SAY THIS CAUSED THE GREAT DEPRESSION, THE BOOK EMPHASIZES THAT THERE
WERE A LOT OF OTHER FACTORS THAT LED TO THE GREAT DEPRESSION
Lack of Diversification 641 First of which, is the lack of diversification in the Nations Industries.
The US produced cars… and not much. But like, people can only own so many cars so yeah
eventually this industry was going to crash.
Maldistribution of Wealth 641 Ok so like you know how wages suck at this point? The average
American did not have a lot of buying power, with more than 50% of americans being BELOW
the poverty line. And since America is focusing on producing a lot of consumer goods, 50% of
the nation can’t even afford to BUY STUFF. So yeah that’s a problem.



[PAGE 183]

Declining Exports 642 Europe started buying less American goods due to high tariffs and also
the fact that other countries are also in CRIPPLING DEBT TO THE US .
Unstable International Debt Structure 642 yeah. Britain and France are in EXTREME BIG AF
debt to the US, and they realistically could not pay off their debts. This is also kinda why
Reparations for Germany were suggested and fought for so hard, so that they could use
Germany’s money to pay off their debts. Germany isn’t even able to really buy stuff, they are in
EXTRA DEBT+ DELUXE PRO MAX.
The US Banks tried to solve this problem by… loaning more money. Making things worse,
American tariffs are so damn high that nobody is buying European goods, which means that the
economies of Europe are fucked even more.
And then everyone defaulted on their loans…
Banking Collapse 643 At this point in time, banks are not insured. So when the stock market
crashes, a LOT of banks lose all their investments. By Association, this meant a lot of people
just… lost their money. This leads to massive deflation and layoffs.
Some people believe that if the government insured the banks, the depression could have been
mitigated or even avoided.
Severe Contraction 643 Basically, deflation. THere is not enough money going around. The
nation’s Gross national product drops by 25 BILLION, and like… everyone’s poor pretty much.
Belief in Personal Responsibility 644 The American Dream is the idea that hard work is the only
thing that makes people successful in America, and right now everyone is NOT successful. SO
a lot of people feel really ashamed of themselves and get depressed. A lot of families are relying
on the kindness of others and charity to stay alive, and basically life sucks.
African American Suffering 645 Yeah guess who loses their jobs first? Not a big surprise,
African Amerians are already in poverty most of the time, so now a lot of them have 0 INCOME
and are forced to move. Many Migrate North in hope of finding jobs. However, African
Americans are often sidelined in order to give their white counterparts the Job priority.
“Dust Bowl” 645 TF2 REFERENCE
Basically in the Great Plains, there is a drought, leading to crops dying and there being a lot of
dust. Hence the name…
Okies are people moving from the Dust Bowl (which is pretty much Oklahoma) and moving to
other places like California.
NAACP’s Changing Role 646 The NAACP becomes more of an African American Labor Union
thing, with people arguing for better working conditions and more pay and stuff.



[PAGE 184]

Scottsboro Case 646 The Scottsboro case is a group of teenagers that are found as stowaways
on a train. However, some white women accuse them of rape. Despite the overwhelming
evidence of no rapes happening, the 9 teens were all SENTENCED TO DEATH. Their
sentences were overturned, but they were held in prison for a while, with some of them leaving
jail in the 1950s.
Discrimination Against Hispanics 646 A lot of hispanic people lose their jobs, and are even
deported from the US, despite their status as US citizens. Great Depression stuff, people
thought “repatriating” Hispanics would be more beneficial to the cities’ economies(it wasn’t).
___________________________________________________________________________
Japanese American Citizens League 648 In California (Where most of the Japanese people
lived), the great Depression led to a lot of discrimination and a lack of jobs. The Japanese
American Citizens League was a group of people that fought for more rights, and also tried to
overcome discrimination by assimilating and becoming more “American”
Chinese people were mentioned too, but it just says that they worked laundromats and
restaurants (wow who would have guessed guys)
Popular Disapproval of Women’s Employment 648 The Great Depression reinforced the idea
that women should stay in the home for many. That’s it.
Increased Women’s Employment 648 Despite the point directly above it, many women did in
fact, go to work. Despite the condemnation of it, many women went to work because people
needed money to like, not starve. By the end of the depression, 20% more women were working
than had been doing so pre Great Depression.
Retreat From Consumerism 649 You know how everyone was buying goods because they had
the money to do so? Well, nobody has the money to do so anymore, so many people stopped
buying goods. People went back to making their own clothes and making their own food and
stuff liek that.
Also divorce rates went down because nobody could afford to divorce
Persistence of the “Success” Ethic 649 THE CEO MINDSET
Despite the fact that like everyone is broke and poor and struggling, THe depression didn’t
really do anything to the idea of the American Dream
Self Blame 650 In Fact, it kind of reinforced the idea? Many unemployed people blamed (the
beasts) themselves for not being able to hold a job and support their families
“Discovery” of Rural Poverty 650 Wow so everyone was poor in big cities because there are no
jobs, but then people are SHOCKED and AMAZED that people in rural areas are also poor.
Wow it’s almost like there was some kind of dust bowl guys.



[PAGE 185]

Anyway, yeah the government got people to like take photos and record the extent of poverty,
and apparently it was pretty bad
Depression Literature 650 Yeah during this time of big sad and everyone being poor, there was
a lot of literature that echoed the sentiment that many people had at the time, that being that
being poor is bad and also that capitalism sucks.
Also during the depression, a lot of escapism (ISEKAI??? Oh my god i actually said that…)
Not anime, but in fact superman and other hero comics and stuff. Film noir????
Escapist Programming 651 On the radio, many Americans listened to Escapist programming,
with comedies, adventures with superheroes and powerful figures, and other entertainment
programs to get people’s minds off crippling poverty and starvation.
Radios provided Americans with a lot of instant information, like sports games or public events,
or even news.
Radio’s Impact 651 The Radio allowed for events like the Baseball World Series or the
Hindenburg disaster to become major events in the minds of all Americans.
Also once some guys did a radio play of “War of the Worlds” and then half of America thought
they were being jumped by aliens…
Continuing Of Popular Movies 651 Movies are still pretty popular, although there was a dip in
attendance due to the slight problem of EVERYBODY STILL BEING POOR GUYS I THINK WE
GET THE IDEA OF THE AVERAGE FINANCIAL STATUS.
Anyway, yeah movies are cool, and some guy named Will Hays gets to censor all of em. Movie
adaptations of novels and stuff are coming out too. Cool!
Walt DIsney 652 The 1930s led to the rise of Disney Animations. Steamboat Willie came out in
1928 (and is now copyright free) and he got popular. Cool! Snow White comes out in 1937 and
is like the first major length animated film to become popular.
Life Magazine 653 Magazines become popular, and Life Magazine focuses on the current state
of the US, a little bit of politics, but mostly pop culture, such as sporting events and theater
productions. Also a lot of photographs of Americans living their lives.
Spanish Civil War 654 As a result of economic panic and stuff, there are some extreme
responses. One is a hard Left turn towards communism, and the other being a hard Right turn
towards Facism.



[PAGE 186]

So During the 1920s ish in Spain, there was a civil war between Fascists and the existing
republican government. This fight got a decent amount of Americans to join the fight against
Facism, such as Author Ernest Hemingway.
Southern Tenant Farmers’ Union 654 The STFU Was a group of farmers that supported the
Socialist Party of America. According to the book, they attempted to create economic reform,
but didn’t really accomplish anything. Popular front - communist (anti fascist).
The Left’s Newfound Respectability 655 The New Deal led to the left wing looking more
respectable. That’s it
The Grapes of Wrath 655 The Grapes Of Wrath is a novel about people living in the dust bowl
that move to California in search of work. And then everyone in their family dies of like, illness
and stuff.
Failure of Voluntarism 656 To solve the great depression, Herbert Hoover came up with the
brilliant idea of Voluntaris where he told business “please do not fire workers” and told people to
donate to charity.
This did not work.
Agricultural Marketing Act 656 The Agricultural Marketing act established a Farm Board to loan
money to corporations to buy excess crops. This in theory, would increase crop prices. However
at the same time, Hoover raised tariffs on agriculture, which led to less food exports.
Hoover’s Declining Popularity 656 People were getting mad at Hoover’s lack of doing anything
at all to fix the great depression, leading to him being blamed for the Great Depression. Shanty
Towns would be named “Hoovervilles” just to rub it in.
Shanty Towns were basically just impoverished settlements constructed from metal scraps,
wood and cardboard. Search it up and you’ll see the full picture.
Reconstruction Finance Corporation 656 The Reconstruction Finance Corporation was a
government agency that gave money to banks, railroads, and other businesses that are failing
at the moment. It only lent money to institutions that could pay it back though, so most of the
money went to large banks that could tank the hit of the Great Depression. yay.
Farmers Holiday Association 657 A group of iowan farmers who got fed up and stopped sending
produce to the rest of the US. They basically went on strike. They started this because of the
low wages that they were working.
Demise of the Bonus Army 657 During The Great Depression, many WWI veterans were pretty
angry that they didn’t get their $1000 bonus when their service ended, and went and marched to
DC. This ended up not working for them, and President Herbert Hoover ordered that the police
and eventually military be sent to stop the protest. Eventually, violence broke out and 2 veterans



[PAGE 187]

were killed. Kind of crazy that these folks who fought one of the bloodiest wars in history for the
US just a decade ago would end up dead by the US. Another reason to hate Herbert Hoover I
guess.
FDR Nominated 658 New York Governor FDR was the Democratic nominee opposing Herbert
Hoover in the 1932 election.
Note: Don’t use TLDR’s for studying, they don’t have enough information
1932 Election 658 - Roosevelt wins by receiving 57.4% vs 39.7% for Hoover. The Electoral
College was even more in favor of Roosevelt with Delaware, Pennsylvania, Connecticut,
Vermont, New Hampshire and Maine all supporting Hoover, but every other state supporting
Roosevelt. TLDR: Basically Roosevelt wins by a landslide.
Banking Class 659 - In February, a crisis spawns when the American banking system suddenly
decides to shit itself. Public confidence in the banks also shit itself with depositors withdrawing
their money, and one bank closed after another with many declaring bankruptcy. After Hoover
tells Roosevelt to get his shit together and give public assurances that there would be no
tinkering with money, no heavy borrowing, no unbalancing of budget, Roosevelt refuses.
TLDR: February marks the point where American banking shits itself, public confidence drops
and people withdraw their money, leading to banks declaring bankruptcy.
Roosevelt’s Personality 662 - Very cheerful guy in the face of despair. In his inaugural address,
he said that Americans only needed to fear themselves and not other countries and promised to
take drastic actions against emergencies like war. He was the first president to make use of the
radio, where he explained his programs (like the emergency banking act) and plans to people
(called fireside chats) which boosted public confidence. He basically got respect for being one of
the boys. Journalists loved him so much that they didn’t take photos of him being paralyzed (so
the American public didn’t know about his polio).
TLDR: very popular with his fireside chats, cheerful personality, patriotism and booster of public
confidence.
“Bank Holiday” 662 - 2 days after taking office, FDR issued a proclamation stating that all
American banks close for 4 days until Congress could meet in a special session for bank
reforming. It helped relieve stress and 3 days later he passed the Emergency Banking Act,
which protected larger banks from being dragged down by weaknesses of smaller banks. It also
provided for Treasury Department inspection of all banks before they reopened. Congress was
pissed about this but within 3 days, the banking crisis ended. So yay.
TLDR: After taking office, FDR says American banks close for 4 days until Congress could
decide on bank reforms. 3 days later, the Emergency Banking Act gets passed which protects
larger banks from being dragged down by smaller ones. Within 3 days the banking crisis ended.



[PAGE 188]

Economy Act (added this myself) - After the Emergency Banking Act, FDR sends the Economy
Act which convinced conservatives (business guys especially) that the fed gov was in safe,
responsible hands. It balanced the federal budget by cutting the salaries of government
employees and reduced pensions to vets by 15%.
TLDR: Economy Act - FDR uses the Economy Act to convince businesses and conservatives
that the fed gov was in good hands. It cut salaries of government employees and reduced
pensions to vets by 15%.
Prohibition Repealed 663 - Now sale and manufacture of beer is legalized with a 3.2% alcohol
content. The 21nd amendment (to kill prohibition) passed in 1933.
AAA 663 - Agricultural Adjustment Act (1933) passed to reduce crop production to end over
supply of agriculture and reduce inflation of farm prices. Through the Agricultural Adjustment
Administration (Yes, the AAA), farmers could decide on production limits for their crops, and the
AAA would tell the farmer how much they should produce. Adding on, the AAA would pay them
subsidies for the land not being used. Income increased by ½ and made the agricultural
economy stable. The AAA favored larger farmers over smaller ones.
TLDR: Agricultural Adjustment Act is passed to end overproduction of agriculture and deflate
prices. The Agricultural Adjustment Administration would pay them subsidies for unused land.
Income increased by a half and made the agriculture economy stable.
“Rural Electrification” 663 - Poor farmers also got help. The Resettlement Administration (1935)
and its successor, the Farm Security Administration (1937) gave loans to farmers so they could
relocate to better lands. But it only moved less than 1k farmers. More effective was the Rural
Electrification Administration (1935) which made electric power available for the first time to
many farmers.
TLDR: Rural Electrification - Rural Electrification Administration (‘35) gave electricity for the first
time to many farmers.
NRA 666 - Thanks to Roosevelt, the National Industrial Recovery Act (‘33) gets passed because
business leaders don’t enjoy workers being pissed at low salaries and high prices and they also
hate antitrust laws (so those get relieved). The National Recovery Administration, the agency for
this act, had a leader named Hugh S. Johnson (very interesting name) who told every business
to accept a temporary “blanket code”: minimum wage between 30 and 40 cents an hour with
max workweek of 35-40 hrs + abolition of child labor, so many people agreed with it.
Unfortunately, the codes were poorly and hastily written and the fed officials had no experience
running such a big program. Big companies manipulated the rules of the NIRA to work to their
advantage at the expense of small businesses.



[PAGE 189]

TLDR: The National Recovery Administration runs the National Industrial Recovery Act (NIRA)
and is led by Huge Johnson I mean Hugh S. Johnson who said everyone in business should
accept a “blanket code” which made minimum wage 30-40c/hour with max workweek 35-40 hrs
+ no more child labor. Cuz the rules were poorly written and fed officials had no experience
running the program, big companies manipulated the rules to work in their favor.
Section 7(a) 666 - Section 7(a) of the NIRA said workers could form unions and engage in
collective bargaining and encouraged others to do the same. BUT, it had no ways to enforce
said terms. Thus, employers ignored it and increased wages were not recognized as well. The
Public WOrks Administration (PWA, 1933) which was to execute orders from the NIRA’s
spending programs was very slow at spending funds and it didn’t help the economy fast
enough. Industrial production fell after the NRA began. Schechter Poultry Corp v. United States
case led to the Supreme Court to declare the NIRA unconstitutional which ended the program.
By the way, the PWA funded large scale public works (construction) to boost the economy.
TLDR: Section 7a of the NIRA said workers could form unions, but had no way to enforce the
terms. Employers ignored the NIRA and the PWA’s execution of the NIRA was very slow and it
couldn’t help the economy. The NRA failed at industrial production and Schechter Poultry Corp
v. The United States ended the NIRA.
TVA 66b7 - After the AAA and NRA supported economic planning but let farmers and business
leaders stay in control, reformers got mad and said the fed gov should control planning directly.
The solution? - The TVA (Tennessee Valley Authority 1933) focused on regional planning and
cheap electricity for farmers. It built dams, prevented flooding, improved transportation, and
encouraged industry in the Tennessee Valley. The TVA didn’t challenge racial discrimination.
TLDR: Tennessee Valley Authority gives cheap electricity to farmers. It built dams, prevented
flooding, improved transportation and encouraged industry in the Tennessee Valley.
Glass-Steagall Act 668 - The early New Deal expanded federal control over the economy. The
Glass-Steagall Act regulated banks, separated commercial banking and investment banking,
and created the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), which insured bank deposits up
to $2,500. In 1935, a new banking law gave more power to the Federal Reserve Board in
Washington, strengthening federal control over banking .
TLDR: Glass-Steagall Act regulated banks, separated commercial and investment banks and
made the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation to insure bank deposits.
SEC 668 - To protect investors, Congress passed the Securities Act of 1933, which required
companies to give full and accurate information about new stocks. In 1934, it created the
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to regulate and monitor the stock market. These
laws increased government oversight after scandals and criminal trials damaged public trust in
Wall Street.



[PAGE 190]

TLDR: Through the Securities Act, the SEC will now police the stock market to increase gov
oversight after scandals that damaged public confidence in Wall Street.
CWA 668 - FDR creates the Federal Emergency Relief Administration (FERA) to give cash to
states for relief, led by Harry Hopkins. However, Roosevelt preferred work relief instead of direct
handouts. So the Civil Works Administration (CWA) was created, providing over 4 million
temporary jobs building roads, schools, and parks to boost the economy and help the
unemployed.
TLDR: CWA is created to provide jobs for building roads, schools and parks to boost the
economy and help the unemployed. FERA gave cash to states for relief.
CCC 668 - FDR strongly supported the Civilian Conservation Corps (CCC), which gave young
unemployed men jobs in parks and forests doing conservation work; however, camps were
racially segregated.
To help struggling farmers and homeowners, the gov created the Farm Credit Administration
and passed the Frazier-Lemke Farm Bankruptcy Act to help farmers keep their land. It also
established the Home Owners' Loan Corporation to refinance home mortgages and later the
Federal Housing Administration (FHA) to insure home loans.
TLDR: Civilian Conservation Corps gave young unemployed men jobs in parks and forests for
racially segregated conservation work.
Farm Credit Administration - passed the Frazier-Lemke Farm Bankruptcy act to help farmers
keep their land
Home Owners Loan Corporation (HOLC) - Refinance home mortgages
Federal Housing Administration (FHA) - insured home loans
American Liberty League 669 - By 1934, critics on both the right and left strongly attacked the
New Deal. Wealthy conservatives, including the Du Pont family, formed the American Liberty
League to oppose FDR’s policies, calling them too powerful and anti-business, but the group
gained little support beyond industrial leaders. Radical groups like the Communist Party USA
and the Socialist Party of America also criticized the New Deal, yet they failed to gain
widespread public support.
TLDR: Wealthy conservatives form the unpopular American Liberty League which opposes FDR
cuz they are too anti-business. Unpopular radical groups like the Communist Party USA and the
Socialist Party also criticize the New Deal.
Townsend Plan 669 - During the New Deal, some powerful political movements challenged
Roosevelt from outside the usual left–right spectrum. Dr. Francis Townsend proposed giving
Americans aged 60+ a $200 monthly pension if they retired and spent the $200, gaining over 5
million supporters; although Congress rejected his plan, it helped build support for the 1935
Social Security Act. Father Charles Coughlin, a popular radio priest from Michigan, who liked



[PAGE 191]

Roosevelt but later criticized him and promoted major banking and currency reforms. He
founded the National Union for Social Justice in 1935 and had one of the largest radio
audiences in the country. The NUSJ hated jews and communism and capitalism and ensured
economic well-being for the entire community.
TLDR: The Townsend Plan - Francis Townsend said we should give 60+ y.o Americans a $200
monthly pension. Congress rejected the plan but it built support for the 1935 Social Security Act.
Father Charles Coughlin founded the National Union for Social Justice in 1935 and has the
largest radio audiences in the country. The NUSJ hated capitalism and communism and
ensured economic well-being for the entire community.
Huey Long 670 - Senator Huey P. Long of Louisiana becomes a big threat to the New Deal. He
attacks his opponents (banks, oil companies and political elites) which leads to people calling
him a dictator. He remains very popular cuz he builds roads, schools and hospitals. He also
revised tax codes, distributing free textbooks & lowered utility rates. In 1930, he was elected to
the US senate which increased his national influence.
TLDR: Huey Long threatens the new deal by attacking banks, oil companies and political elites.
People call him a dictator but he remains popular cuz he builds roads, schools, hospitals,
revised tax codes, distributed free textbooks and lowered utility rates. In 1930 he was elected to
the US senate.
Share-Our-Wealth Society 670 - At first, Huey Long actually supported FDR but in 1932 broke
relations. He opposed the New Deal and created the Share-Our-Wealth Plan, which said: tax
the rich and redistribute their money to make sure every family has a 5k allowance and a 2-2.5k
salary. In 1934, he formed the Share Our Wealth Society which gained much support. By 1935,
the polls showed that he could win over 10% of the vote, which possibly could have affected
presidential elections.
TLDR: Huey Long creates the Share-Our-Wealth Plan which taxed the rich to distribute the
money to make sure every family had a 5k homestead allowance and a 2.5k salary.
National Labor Relations Board 670 - FDR launches the second new deal to deal with the Great
Depression and political pressure. He becomes more critical of big businesses and begins to
support the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 which limits large utility companies. He
proposes higher, more progressive taxes on the wealthy too. After the Supreme Court struck
down the National Industrial Recovery Act, Congress passed the National Labor Relations Act
of 1935 which created the National Labor RElations Board to protect worker’s rights to form
unions and bargain collectively.
TDLR: National Labor Relations Board - protected workers rights to form unions.
Industrial Unionism 671 - The AFL supports craft unions, which organize workers by specific
skills. But many workers are unskilled at the time so industrial unionism becomes popular. It



[PAGE 192]

basically just organizes all workers in the same industry into one union no matter their job,
which increases a worker’s overall productivity.
TLDR: Industrial Unionism basically organizes all workers in the same industry into one union
no matter the job to boost productivity.
CIO 671 - Many AFL leaders opposed industrial unionism (above term) but John L.Lewis
supported it. After conflicts with the AFL leaders, Lewis decided to form the Committee of
Industrial Organization which became the Congress of Industrial Organization (CIO) in 1936.
The CIO organized all workers in an industry and welcomed women and African Americans and
used more aggressive tactics to unionize major industries like steel and automobiles.
TLDR: John L.Lewis forms the Congress of Industrial Organization after conflicts with AFL
leaders. It aggressively unionized the steel and automobile industry and organized all works in
an industry and welcomed women and African Americans.
Sit-Down Strike 671 - The United Auto Workers (UAW) became popular in 1937 after workers
led a sit-down strike at General Motors by occupying factories and refusing to leave. Michigan
governor Frank Murphy refused to remove them and GM recognized the union. Sit-down strikes
later ended cuz they were seen as illegal. In the steel industry, U.S. Steel recognized unions
peacefully but smaller companies resisted the unions. During the 1937 Memorial Day Massacre,
police killed 10 striking workers and the steel strike failed.
TLDR: United Auto Workers lead a sit-down strike at GM. Steel industry recognized unions, but
small companies didn’t. During the 1937 memorial day massacre, police kill 10 workers and
steel strikes failed.
Organized Labor’s Rapid Growth 671 - After 1937, unions grew a lot. There were 4720 strikes
that year and 80% ended in favor of unions. Union membership increased from 3 million in 1932
to 8 million in 1937 and reached 10 million by 1941, including workers in the steel industry
whose employers eventually recognized unions like the SWOC (Steel Workers Organizing
committee).
TLDR: Unions grow a lot during the late 30s, Unions win a lot of strikes and gain a lot of
members. Yeah, that’s it.
Unemployment Insurance 672 - FDR supports the Social Security Act in 1935, which creates
pensions for old people, which is just unemployment insurance and aid for people with
disabilities and dependent children. Workers and employers paid payroll taxes to fund these
retirement benefits, but the payments were small at first and some groups like domestic and
agricultural workers were excluded. The SSA tried to create an insurance system rather than
simple welfare and became the foundation of America’s long-term social security system.



[PAGE 193]

TLDR: The Social Security Act created unemployment insurance (funded by employers and
workers) to aid old people, disabled people and dependent children. At first the payments were
small and domestic/agricultural workers were excluded.
WPA 673 - The Works Progress Administration was created in 1935 by FDR (why tf do I keep
on mentioning him he’s basically responsible for 100% of all of these acts) to give jobs to
unemployed Americans during the Great Depression. Harry Hopkins led the administration and
he was able to hire millions to build public buildings, roads, bridges and airports. The
Administration also supported artists and writers through special programs and helped young
people through the National Youth Administration. Most job programs mainly helped men, but
women received cash aid for dependent children.
TLDR: Led by Harry Hopkins, the Workers Progress Administration is created to give jobs to
unemployed people during the GD. Work included: building buildings, roads, bridges and
airports. It supported artists and writers. NYA helped young people.
Alf Landon 673 - By 1936, as the economy improved, FDR was likely to win reelection due to
his New Deal. Republicans nominated Alf Landon, but he ran a weak campaign. Opposition
weakened after Huey Long was assassinated in 1935, and the new Union Party failed to gain
support. Roosevelt won a historic landslide, earning about 61% of the vote and carrying every
state except Maine and Vermont, while Democrats strengthened their control of Congress.
TLDR: Republican Alf London - he loses to FDR cuz London’s campaign is weak and FDR
established his superiority through the New Deal.
Electoral Realignment 675 - The 1936 election showed a major party realignment caused by the
New Deal. The Democratic Party built a strong coalition of Western and Southern farmers,
urban workers, the poor, unemployed people, Black voters in Northern cities, progressives, and
liberals. This broad support gave Democrats a long-lasting majority, and it took Republicans
many decades to build a majority coalition again.
TLDR: The 1936 election saw new people supporting different parties. Poor, unemployed
people, African Americans in the North, urban workers, progressives and liberals supported the
Democrats. It took a long time for republicans to gain a majority vote.
Court Packing 675 - After winning reelection in 1936, FDR tried to limit the power of the
conservative Supreme Court of the United States, which had struck down New Deal laws like
the National Industrial Recovery Act and the Agricultural Adjustment Act. In 1937, he proposed
the “Court-packing plan” to add up to six new justices, but Congress rejected it after the Court
began upholding New Deal laws in cases like West Coast Hotel Co. v. Parrish. Although the
Court became more supportive of New Deal reforms, the failed plan hurt Roosevelt politically
and increased opposition from conservatives.



[PAGE 194]

TLDR: In order to limit the power of the Supreme Court (cuz they struck down on ND laws like
the NIRA and AAA), FDR created the Court Packing plan - which added 6 new justices (which
Congress rejected). The failed plan hurt Roosevelt, and conservatives increased their hate
towards FDR.
Roosevelt Recession 678 - The “Roosevelt Recession” of 1937 was blamed on reduced gov
spending. In 1938, FDR asks Congress for 5 billion for public works and relief, which restarts
the economic recovery and supports the idea of gov spending to fight recessions. He also
pushed stronger antitrust actions, leading to the creation of the Temporary National Economic
Committee and more aggressive enforcement. In 1938, Congress passed the Fair Labor
Standards Act, which created a national minimum wage, a 40-hour workweek, and limits on
child labor, though it excluded many women and minority workers at first.
TLDR: Roosevelt Recession of 1937 is blamed on reduced gov spending. The Temporary
National Economic Committee is made for antitrust. Congress passes the Fair Labor Standards
Act to create national minimum wage, 40 hour workweek and no child labor (not for women or
minorities).
End of the New Deal 678 - By the end of 1938, the New Deal had mostly ended because
Congress opposed new major reforms. Franklin D. Roosevelt also began focusing more on
preparing the United States for possible war as global tensions increased, shifting attention
away from domestic reform.
TLDR: ND ended in 1938 cuz Congress opposed new reforms. FDR begins to prepare the US
for war and focuses less on domestic reform.
Federal Welfare State Established 684 THe New deal created the basis of the federal welfare
state, because of all the relief programs. Conservatives were pretty focused on making sure
welfare would not have that big of an impact, and also reinforce some discrimination though…
But! Overall, nice job US government! The new system was a shift towards the government
actually helping the people.
New Expectations of Government 684 The New deal greatly impacted the people’s expectations
of what a government should be doing for the people. First of all, the democratic party became
greatly popular due to FDR, and also made citizens realize they could vote on economic
matters, meaning the people expected their candidates to actually support them economically.



[PAGE 195]

READING QUIZ#5 INFO ENDS HERE
READING QUIZ#6 INFO STARTS HERE
The
Smith–Connally Act (War Labor Disputes Act of 1943) was a US federal law passed
over President FDR’s veto to prevent labor strikes in critical war industries during WWII
Myth of Isolationism 687 Many people in the 1920s described US policy as Isolationism.
However, looking back on it now, the US had a massive impact on world affairs during this time,
which happens to be the OPPOSITE of isolationism.
Washington Conference of 1921 687 The Washington Conference was an attempt to prevent
war by reducing the amount of naval armaments there were in the world. THe proposal limited
the amount of total naval armaments and set a ratio of arms nations could have. This
inadvertently gave Japan a ton of “legal rights” to their imperialist campaign, as Japan had been
allowed quite a few warships given the size of Japan overall…
Kellogg-Briand Pact 688 The Kellogg Briand Pact concluded the Washington Conference when
the French foreign minister Aristide Briand asked the US to join an alliance against Germany.
US secretary Frank Kellogg suggested a worldwide treaty banning war, and a lot of nations
signed.
How the hell were they gonna enforce that????
Circular Loans 688 “the dawes plan”
The Dawes plan was a plan for European economic recovery to fix the main problems that
happened to the world economies after WWI
1. Britain and France are broke
2. Germany is also broke, but they also have to pay reparations to France and Britain
3. Germany is like really really really broke
So the plan was that Americans would give loans to the Germans to help them recover and
build an economy, and in turn France and Britain would reduce to total amount of debt Germany
had
The Plan didn’t really work due to the fact that the Banks used this as an opportunity to make
America a bunch of money by opening factories and stuff in Europe.
Also people pointed out that this put billions of dollars into the hands of a very unstable Europe.
Economic Expansion in Latin America 688 The US government wanted to expand its economic
influence to Latin America. To do so, American Companies invested a lot of money into



[PAGE 196]

Infrastructure, and also offered massive loans to Latin American Governments, loans which
were very very very very very expensive and hard to pay off, leading to a lot of US resentment.
In Latin America, there were also a lot revolutions at this time, and Hoover shifted the US policy
to be “we will deal with whoever is the government at the time we do not care how you get
power”.
Manchuria 690 At this time, Japan was undergoing a depression of their own, and also were
afraid of Russian and Chinese influence and power over Japan. So Japan then invaded
Manchuria (China). Americans were hoping that Japan would just like give up, but then the
Japanese actually conquered Manchuria and the US was like “well fuck. We didn’t see this
coming pls stop”. This did not work. So America just said “well uh, we don’t think you own china
so we don’t recognize your right to do that”.
Failure of America’s Interwar Democracy 690
Basically this whole debacle proved to the world that the US was not gonna enforce a system of
peace, and that the whole international cooperation thing didn’t really work.
FDR’s Bombshell 691 So before Hoover left office, he argued to the world that reinforcing the
world gold standard could fix the economy and that the US would participate in the World
Economic Conference. However by time the conference happened, FDR was president and he
said “yeah fuck you guys old ass boomer shit here screw this” and then the conference did
nothing important.
Reciprocal Trade Agreement Act 691 As a response to the Hawley Smoot Tariff, THis was an
agreement that nations would lower tariffs on each other in order to increase overall trade and
exports. This worked pretty well, but countries couldn;t get American currency, which most
merchants required…
Inter-American Conference 691 A Convention between the US and Latin American
Governments, the Secretary of State Hull (is that his name???) declared that “No State has the
right to intervene in the affairs of another”. This in practice meant that the US government was
going to not use military force in Latin America. Of course the US isn't going to give up all their
influence, so they resorted to economic domination, with American corporations dominating
Latin American economies.
Sources of Isolationism 692 FDR’s calls for world peace through agreements and disarmament
were not going well. Germany and Italy just stopped showing up to world conferences about
peace, and Japan did so as well. So basically a lot of Americans said “screw this” and started
supporting isolationism.
Also leading to more isolationism? The lack of power the League of Nations had in stopping
Japanese imperialism. Also some conspiracy theories that the US joined WWI because of wall



[PAGE 197]

street, arms makers, and other powerful groups tricking the public into joining the war. There
was some actual shadiness, with arms manufacturers doing tax evasion and stuff.
Also Mussolini invading Ethiopia made people fear being dragged into another European war.
Neutrality Acts 693 The Neutrality Acts were designed to prevent the events that people
believed led to the US joining WWI (those events being selling arms and like, traveling on
European ships or something). SO the Neutrality Acts of 1936 and 37 established a mandatory
arms embargo and also gave the president the power to warn Citizens about traveling on ships
that may be targeted during conflicts.
It also created a beta version of “Cash and Carry” where fighting nations could buy US goods if
they showed in in the US and paid cash, and also carried their own goods on their own vessels.
Ethiopia 693 Yeah in October of 1935, Mussolini attacked Ethiopia and also said “Adios ya later
fuckers” to the League of Nations when they tried to politely ask him to stop. Mussolini then
started an alliance with Hitler called the Axis Powers.
This led to a greater call for Isolationism.
Also the Spanish Civil War led to more isolationist ideals.
“Quarantine” Speech 694 Ok also at this time, Japan is still invading and conquering China, so
Roosevelt gives his famous “Quarantine Speech” Where he calls out for the quarantine of
warring and imperialist nations (he didn’t name names). He got a lot of Backlash for suggesting
the US do something about imperialism, so he backed down FAST.
Munich Conference 695 A Meeting between Hitler and France and Britain in order to prevent
Hitler from invading Czechoslovikia. Hitler aimed to invade there because he wanted
“lebensraum” (living space) for the German people or something. SO France and Britian agreed
to give him that land through appeasement, and told Hitler very politely “please do not invade
other places now that we gave you Czechoslovakia.” and Hitler said “ok”
Failure of “Appeasement” 695 Hitler then went on to conquer the rest of Czechoslovakia and
declared his intention to invade Poland. He then signed a nonaggression pact with Russia (who
had been left out of the Munich Conference) and On September 1, 1939, he invaded Poland.
And then WWII started.
Cash-and-Carry 695 Cash and Carry is the US policy that the Allies could buy arms from the US
if they pay in cash and ship the weapons themselves.
Fall of France 697 France is Invaded in 1940 and On June 22, France gets swept and Paris
gets captured. (somebody add more im getting tired) Many fled, including the Brits at Dunkirk. If



[PAGE 198]

anyone hasn’t watched Dunkirk (the movie), basically, a bunch of civilian and military boats go
from Britain to France to rescue a bunch of British soldiers and bring them home.
Shifting Public Opinion 698 Before France got rekt, many Americans did not see Germany as a
valid threat that could actually win. However now, people were more aware that Germany could
actually threaten the United States, and more people were approving of FDR sending support to
the Allies.
America First Committee 698 However at the same time, The America First Committee was
established, which was a group of people that wanted to support Isolationism. The group was
full of rich and powerful people, and also a lot of racists and were very anti-semetic.
Wendell Willkie 699 FDR’s second term was reaching its end, but he didn’t withdraw, so the
Democrats ended up nominating him again. His opponent was Wendell Wilkie, a guy with
similar positions and was a pretty popular guy, but he lost to FDR, who was then elected for the
3rd time.
Lend-Lease 699 On March of 1941, Roosevelt decided to stop being Neutral, and actively
started helping the Allies by leasing weapons to America’s allies on the basis of giving them
back or paying for them after the war by passing the Lend Lease Act . Isolationists didn’t like this
policy, but it passed with wide margins.
Germany Invades USSR 699 So remember how Russia and Germany signed that
Non-Aggression Pact earlier? Well, uh… yeah Hitler invaded Russia and hit them HARD. As this
is going on, FDR is trying to become an ally for Stalin by extending the Lend-Lease to Russia as
well. THis made Germany begin to target the US, as the US is now supporting Germany’s
enemies on two different fronts.
Atlantic Charter 699 The Atlantic Charter was a document released after a meeting between
FDR and Winston Churchill. The two created a document which set out common principles on
which a post-war world could be based on. It also very very subtly called for the destruction of
the Nazis.
Here’s what it called for:
No territorial expansion, people choosing their own gov, free trade/economic cooperation
between nations, freedom of ship travel, disarmament of aggressive nations and more peace .
Tripartite Pact 700 The Tripartite Pact was an agreement between Germany, Italy, and Japan.
So basically it brought the Japanese into the Axis powers. This made the US even more
antagonistic to Japan, and FDR froze all Japanese Assets in the US and established a full
embargo against Japan (trade ban).
Tokyo’s Decision for War 701 Tokyo needed gas, and also the US was not expecting an attack
on their Pacific Naval Bases until Japan went for the closer Dutch and British Pacific Islands so
Japan planned an attack on Hawaii… (someone add more to this one) but US planners decided



[PAGE 199]

to pay more attention to a large convoy moving in the China sea. It was a combination of
confusion and miscalculations that eventually led too… (look below)
Pearl Harbor 701 At 7:55 On Sunday December 7 1941, Japanese bombers attacked the
Hawaiian Naval Base at Pearl Harbor, catching pretty much everyone off guard. ( they had
evident signs that the japanese were going to attack soon but decided to ignore them assuming
they might attack the philipines or the harbor later in the future) This led to the loss of 8
battleships, 3 cruisers, a bunch of other ships and planes, and 2000 deaths. American forces in
the Pacific were greatly weakened. And also Japan’s allies declared war on the US.
America United 705 So before this point, people were not that up for fighting another war
(remember the America First Party and stuff?). But after Pearl Harbor, people were itchin for a
war to be fought. Recruitment into the army skyrocketed, and the US was officially involved in
WWII.
Midway 705 One of the main turning points of the Pacific Theater. The battle of Midway Island
was a hard fight for both sides but the US turned out victorious in the end. More importantly this
was a naval battle where the US took out 4 Japanese aircraft carriers while only losing one of
their own.
Guadalcanal 705 Once the Pacific Theater started to turn in favor of the Americans, the US
started attacking the Solomon Islands, attacking Gavatu, Tulagi and Guadalcanal. Guadalcanal
in particular was especially violent and took 6 months to take, but eventually the US did take the
islands.
Stalingrad 707 The bloodiest battle in the entirety of WWII, Joseph Stalin ordered all citizens in
Stalingrad to stay behind to defend the city. On the flip side, Hitler refused to let up his offense
on the city, leading to a casualty count of over 2.2 million. In the end, the Soviets luckily won
such a battle and Hitler’s offense into Russia was stopped.
Dispute over Second Front 708 somebody that isn’t me do this one I don’t get it at all okay so
basically the US and UK were slow to cross/invade mainland europe. This makes other leaders
think that they were purposely doing this to allow the Russians to take the brunt of the
fighting(US and UK wanting to have less casualties).
Yeah basically Russia was doing all the fighting and dying, and was mad because the US and
UK were taking too long to invade France.
US and UK were baiting Russia to steal kills and the win at the end
Official Anti-Semitism 709 The St Louis was a ship carrying nearly a thousand Jewish refugees
fleeing from Europe to go to the US. However, the US, Cuba and Canada turned back this ship,
and this was for no other reason other than because the State Department was FILLED with
anti-semitists who refused to even look at a lot of the Visas that a lot of Jewish people carried
with them, including those on the St. Louis.



[PAGE 200]

War-Induced Economic Recovery 709 WWII for Americans was the final push out of the Great
Depression. It created jobs for millions of Americans and helped the economy bounce back.
Union Gains 712 Ironically enough, WWII was so successful in helping the US economy that
just a decade ago what was once an unemployment pandemic had become a labor
shortage(meaning not enough people to work the given jobs) because of how many men and
women were employed to work in the military (over 15 million). As such, Union membership
rose from 10 to 13 million in just 4 years between 1941-1945. The government then issued a
limit on how much wage increases for workers could be (15% max), but also issued a guarantee
that new employees would be automatically enrolled into unions. This was overall negative for
the American Unions, and many Americans went on strike.
Office of Price Administration 712 Government passed the Anti-Inflation Act which gave the
government a LOT of control over the economy, giving them the power to freeze prices, wages,
and rent anywhere in the country. The act was to be enforced by the Office of Price
Administrations. This helped the US economy not enter a state of inflation similar to that of WWI
in WWII, but for obvious reasons was not entirely popular with the general populace. After all,
nobody wants to get their wages frozen.
War Production Board 713 War Production Board was an organization that was pressured by
the public to be formed by the president. It would handle wartime economic growth and had
similar power to the War Industries Board in WWI. The WPB was pretty shit at its job and
couldn’t really get anything to work, but luckily for the US, the economy was fine without the
WPB’s help.
National Defense Research Committee 713 Government created the NDRC, led by MIT
scientist Vannevar Bush for military research and development because Axis powers had much
more technologically advanced weapons (U boat) ((submarine)) . By the end of the war, the
government spent over $100 million on research.
Radar and Sonar 713 The new advancements of sonar allows the US and UK to destroy
german U-boats much much easier
Ultra 714 Ultra Refers to Britain’s code breaking program that was tasked with deciphering c
oded messages sent by the Japanese and Germans using the Enigma. Alan Turing basically
was the guy who carried out the whole operation, but the guy is gay so he gets no awards or
anything :(
The British government’s refusal to treat the LGBTQ+ community better also resulted in his
suicide :( what a way to treat a war hero.
Magic 715 (bro wtf) In the Harry Potter lore, there’s this guy named Grindelwald or whatever the fuck his name was wanted
to kill every non magical person to stop WWII from happening. He was also Dumbledore’s boyfriend or something as well. Man the
harry potter series is wack. Rick Riordan sweep fr fr. Grindelwald sounds like Geto from JJK. Geto wants to kill all non-sorcerers



[PAGE 201]

because normal humans release cursed energy without control causing the birth of curses. Is that the guy who keeps on saying
monkeys in that one video isaiah kept on showing us yeah hes like “stupid monkeys”
In reality, Magic was an American program similar to Ultra, that was tasked with breaking the
Japanese code called Purple (what.). Yeah they did their job and found out about Pearl Harbor
beforehand, but apparently Higher ups in the military were like “hahaha yeah right lmao” until it
happened.
FEPC 715 The FEPC or the Fair Employment Practices Commission was created to investigate
discrimination in war industries. It didn’t really have the power to enforce anything, but it was
one of the first times African Americans were able to get something changed in the US
government.
CORE 715 The Core or the Congress of Racial Equality was an African American group that
fought against discrimination in American Society. They often organized sit-ins and protests in
segregated places. These guys were basically the precursor to the Civil Rights movement.
“Code Talkers” 716 Many Navajo Americans were recruited to work as Code Talkers, conveying
important messages across radio using their native language. The idea was that basically
nobody outside of the US would really know what the Navajo Language was, and therefore
using it would make communication more secure.
like, think about it who tf in japan is gonna know how to speak Navajo?
Employment Gains for Mexican Americans 716 Since everyone was busy fighting the war, large
amounts of Mexicans were brought in with the bracero program, letting Mexican citizens go to
the US to farm crops. These Bracers weren’t paid well, but they WERE employed and many of
them served in the army and stuff.
Zoot-Suit Riots 716 So many Mexican Americans in LA like wearing Zoot Suits, which kinda
look like the 1800s oil baron type fit. Or that one guy who looks like he is wonkamaxxing. Many
white people didn’t like the suits (or the Mexican Americans), and discriminated against them.
This all culminated when some white sailors decided to jump people wearing Zoot Suits, leading
to a whole race riot thing, where many Mexican Americans were arrested. Afterward, the military
banned all sailors for fucking around in LA, and also zoot suits were banned.
Just looked up Zoot Suits, they’re so drippy what the fuck. LOOK AT IT. We should go to school
one day wearing these.
Dramatic Increase in Female Employment 716 Also because people are fighting the war, a lot of
Women are hired These women often replaced men in more industrial jobs that women weren’t
usually seen in at this point in time. However, there is also still racism so Black women are paid
less and all that.



[PAGE 202]

Rosie the Riveter 717 Rosie the Riveter is a piece of propaganda that tried to get women to
work industrial jobs and symbolized the importance of Women in industry. WOmen workers
would often join unions, and also many working mothers were a thing now.
Limited Child Care 717 So a lot of mothers were working, which means there were a lot of
unattended children. Despite government efforts to get child care facilities, many women often
left their kids at home alone, or in the CARS IN THE PARKING LOT DAMN BRUH.
This led to a massive increase in teenage crime, and a lot more teenage prostitutes (what the
fuck book??????)
Beginning of the “Baby Boom” 717 During the war, there were a lot of marriages, but a lot of
these marriages ended in divorce.
(someone add more) Basically because so many people were overjoyed (and frankly just really
horny) that their spouses came home from war, they fucked. I don’t know what else you want
me to say.
Economic Good Times 718 Despite the war going on, American home life was pretty good since
the economy was booming. Movies and Magazines were more popular, and people started
going to casinos and0 stuff.
Fighting for Future Prosperity 719 Americans and American Propaganda often spreaded the
idea that WWII was being fought for the future generations to have a safer, democratic, future.
USO 720
So in Yakuza 0, Goro Majima runs a cabaret club, which is basically a club where Japanese businessmen go to talk to women who are being paid to talk to
them. And also the women are being paid to convince said businessmen to buy overpriced alcohol.
So basically a USO was a traveling group that served in cabaret clubs that traveled around
America and talked to lonely men on military bases. They were expected to talk to the men at
whatever base they were at, and then never see them again afterward.
The Section also talks about how all gay people were kicked out of the army dishonorably, but i
guess that’s only worth one sentence.
Ethnic Distinctions Blurred 720 During WWII, Americans were overall less racist, kinda. The
book says that if you ignore all the racial riots like the zoot suit riots, then America was a very
accepting place.
Well technically it was, Americans didn’t really have problems with German or Italian
Americans, and saw them more as people who fell for propaganda.



[PAGE 203]

For LITERALLY EVERYONE ELSE (minus the chinese i guess for this bit at least) it was
because of the war and participation of different ethnic backgrounds in the war that really made
diversity more healthy .
Anti-Japanese Prejudice 720 Yeah since Japan bombed Pearl Harbor, the average white
American during this time saw the Japanese as like, terrorists or something. People started
accusing Japanese Americans of sabotage and started harassing them. Early government
reports stated that the Japanese Americans weren’t responsible for sabotage, but then some
fucker named Frank Knox said “uh I think that we should deal with all the japanese people in
America” and wow look at that US government policy.
Also important for this section are the terms issei and nisei
Issei is basically like first generation immigrants (born in Japan, moved to US)
Nisei are second generation immigrants (born in US, parents born in Japan)
“Relocation Centers” 721 Under Executive Order 9066, The Japanese Americans in California
and western states were sent to Internment Camps. Over 100,000 people were sent to these
camps that were mostly in the midwest. While not inhumane per se, these camps were definitely
not good or comfortable at all.
People in these camps were often used as laborers, and also they were subjected to
“Americanization” whatever that means…
Also like all Japanese people sent to these camps lost all their property and businesses. That’s
fun.
No bad words guys !
Korematsu v. U.S. 721 Fred Korematsu is a Japanese man but an American citizen and resists
the japanese internment when he gets arrested. He brings his case further into higher courts
until he brings his case to the supreme court where they're like “yup this is fine don't see
anything wrong” and determined that internment of Japanese citizens was constitutional. Later
that year it was determined illegal to intern “loyal” citizens.
Chinese Exclusion Act 721 So since everyone was hating on Japan, and since the Japanese
were Invading and also like pillaging China, people suddenly became a lot more sympathetic
towards the Chinese. Chinese also worked a lot in factories and helped stop labor shortages.
Also 22% of Chinese males were drafted for the war.
And the Chinese Exclusion Act was repealed. Probably should have mentioned that.
Dismantling the New Deal 722 The New deal was great and all, but during the war FDR
focused less on reforms and more on not losing the war. This led to a lot of the relief programs
like the CCC going away, and FDR let it happen so he could continue having support for the
war.



[PAGE 204]

1944 Election 722 FDR is sick as hell right now, but uh, he won again. yeah.
Strategic Bombing 722 To tactically and strategically win the war, the US and British used some
Fuze from Rainbow 6 Siege tactics of bombing everything, including the civilians and hostages.
German Cities like Leipzig, Dresden, and Verlin were raided from the air, creating massive
firestorms that killed like 135000, which is a lot of people.
D-Day 722 Because Germany was demoralized by all the bombings, the US and Britain finally
decide to retake France on June 6 1944. 3 million troops are sent to France, and they show up
where Germany doesn’t expect them, leading to an intense battle where Germany is slowly
pushed back over the course of weeks. (did you know that during D-Day, we had to partially
flood the USS Texas in order to get more range from their cannons)
Battle of the Bulge 723 hehe The allied drive came to a halt at the Rhine River against a firm
line of German defenses and bad weather. In mid-December, German forces attacked along fifty
miles of front in the Ardennes Forest. In the Battle of the Bulge, the Germans drove fifty-five
miles toward Antwerp before they were finally stopped at Bastogne.
Germany Defeated 724 On April 30th, Hitler went out like a little bitch (which every nazi should
do as well :3) and the remaining German forces surrendered on May 8th.
Battle of the Leyte Gulf 725 After Germany Surrenders, the US has still gotta deal with Japan. In
Leyte Island in the Philippines, the US dunks on Japan HARD and basically destroys their entire
naval fleet. This gold lead lets the US snowball into taking Iwo Jima, where both sides take
pretty big losses but the US is bigger so like Japan is still losing hard.
Also Iwo Jima is that famous flag photo everyone is probably using for their blackout poems
(unoriginal little shits) . Neat!
Okinawa 725 The Battle for Okinawa was another sign that Japan was eventually gonna lose,
but also a sign that Japan was willing to fight until the end. The Japanese used a lot of
Kamikaze planes and also tried their best to stop the American push, but they failed and
100,000 Japanese soldiers died. Now Japan is like extra fucked because they have no PLANES
or SHIPS pretty much.
The US fire bombs Tokyo killing another 100,000, but Japan is still trying to fight it out.
Enrico Fermi 726 The guy who discovered radioactivity, which made the construction of atomic
weapons feasible. In 1939, a Danish physicist leaked news of German experiments on
radioactivity to the US and got the US started on making atomic weapons. (a clever reference to
how fermium is the coolest element name ever)
The Trinity Bomb 727 In New Mexico, Oppenheimer and a bunch of other scientists have
developed a BOMB that uses nuclear chain reactions to make the bomb go BOOM extra big.



[PAGE 205]

On July 16 1945, Oppenheimer tested the bomb and the first atomic explosion happened. It
wipes out a lot of land, and unfortunately for the other people living nearby, the government
doesn’t really do anything about the whole radiation thing.
Debating of the Bomb’s Use 727 This point is more retrospective than actual historical event
stuff, but the usage of the Atomic Bomb on Japan (twice) was and is heavily debated.
The main arguing points are
● Should the bomb have been used
○ Some argued that Japan was not going to surrender unless something really big
happened, and that the moderates in Japan that wanted to surrender didn’t even
have the power to do so anyway. Japan’s whole imperialistic track record didn’t
do anyone favors, and the kamikazes also implanted the idea that Japan would
fight until the end at any cost. Also the people in this group tended to argue that
the usage of the bomb would prevent a costly invasion of the entirety of Japan.
○ The other group of people were scared about the repercussions of using such a
massive weapon, fearing the aftermath and political repercussions on using the
bomb. I would say more but the book really didn’t add much else.
● Why was the bomb really used (cold war politics?)
○ Some argue that Truman wanted to use the bomb to end the war quickly by
forcing the Japanese to give up
○ While others argue it was more of a show of power to Russia, and to intimidate
Stalin.
Well whatever the reasoning really was, On the record Truman pretty much wrote that he had a
bomb that could win the war right then, so he used it.
Apparently the guy didn’t even know about the bomb until he entered office.
Hiroshima/Nagasaki 729
On August 6 1945, the plane Enola Gay Dropped an atomic bomb on Hiroshima, wiping out 4
square miles and killing 80,000.
Japan was so shocked by what had happened, that some people were in denial and basically
the government was freaking out too much to give a response,
On August 8, Another bomb was dropped on Nagasaki, killing more than 100,000.
This led to the Japanese Emperor giving up and announcing surrender on August 14. The
surrender was officiated on September 2 1945 on the American battleship Missouri .
And so WWII comes to an end. About 14 million soldiers had died, and around 40 million
Civilians had died too.
The US overall didn’t suffer as much as the others, with about 322,000 dead and 800,000
injured.

