[PAGE 206]

Not everything was peaceful though, because the usage of the Atomic Bombs would lead to a
whole thing in world politics…
And also the cold war happened.
READING QUIZ#6 INFO ENDS HERE
READING QUIZ#7 INFO STARTS HERE
Period 8 Starts Here
Cold War next!
Surprised that the textbook doesn’t include the Tuskegee Airmen or the 442nd considering their
accomplishments
Yeah because this book is famously good at respecting minority groups.
America’s Postwar vision 733 The main thing that caused the Cold War was the difference in
vision for the US and Soviet Union. The US wanted a world where nations abandoned their
beliefs in alliances and Spheres of influence and used democracy to do stuff.
Spheres of Influence 733 AP WORLD REFERENCE??? SPheres of Influence are basically the
idea that bigger nations exert their influence over smaller nations, through political ideology or
like, economic power and stuff.
Dispute over Poland 734 Roosevelt and Churchill wanted to give Poland their own government,
while Stalin wanted to install a communist government. This whole dispute was going on while
FDR was alive adn the war was going on.
United Nations 734 League of Nations? No more. Now we got the UNITED NATIONS
established during the Yalta Conference, it established 5 permanent members (US, Britain,
Fr*nce, Russia, China) with veto power and delegates from many other nations. The UN Charter
was written in San Francisco on April 25 1945, and was ratified.
Other than that, the Yalta conference didn’t really do much, everyone was fighting over what
happens to Germany.



[PAGE 207]

Disagreements over Germany735 Stalin wanted (more) reparations and a complete arms ban
on Germany, While Roosevelt wanted a united and not economically crippled Germany.
Eventually the decision was made to split Germany up into occupied zones which would be
united eventually (trust).
Truman’s Get Tough Policy 735 Truman didn’t like the Soviet Union, so he wanted to get tough
and like, not really bend too much to Russian demands for Germany. So the ending result is that
America, France, and Britain refused to let Russia collect reparations from their part of Germany
through the “Get Tough” policy.
Chiang Kai Shek 735 Chiang Kai Shek was the leader of the Guo Ming Dang party in China, the
Democratic party in China. The US was allied with Chiang and as such were pitted against Mao
Ze Dong’s eventual CCP. A large domestic pressure was made in the US to either
accommodate Mao or come to some sort of agreement with him, but president Truman believed
that the US was a little too committed to pull away from siding with the Guo Ming Dang
(sunk-cost I guess).
Restoring Japan 736 After the US promptly killed 200 thousand innocent Japanese civilians with
the drop of the 2 atoms along with their campaign in attacking Japan, Japan was left a wreck
with very little financial support. Since the US was the ones who caused such a wreck, it was
really their responsibility to rebuild Japan. However, as we know, the US wanted this so that 1.
Japan would be in debt to the US 2. Now the US has an ally in Asia.
Truman Doctrine 737 Truman’s declared policy of containing communist/USSr influence. He
declared a long term and patient containment of Russian Expansive tendencies. Furthermore,
this program gave military stuff to countries like Greece and Turkey to prevent Communism from
spreading.
Rebuilding Europe 737 The US was scared that some of the EU countries would be an
economic drain to the US economy and also that these pro-US gov.s would become communist,
sooooooo secretary of state George C. Marshall instated the Marshall Plan. To give money to
euro countries(besides Soviets). The Soviet satellite states also rejected this help.
National Security Act of 1947 738 The national security act reworked the nation's military and
diplomatic institutions. This combines some of the functions of the army and navy This results in
the creation of the National Security Council(NSC) and the Central Intelligence Agency(CIA).
NATO 740 Due to the increasing tension caused by the US between West and East Germany,
12 nations agreed to establish NATO, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization which was an
alliance that made it so that the involved countries would be forced to help one another if war
were to break out. This organization was met by the USSR with their formation of the Warsaw
Pact which was the exact same thing, just with a different set of nations.



[PAGE 208]

NSC 68 740 The NCS is the National Security Council. NSC-68, which was the National
Security Council in 1950 was important because of the contents in it, in which the US declared
that no longer would they want other nations to be responsible for the “containment” of
communism, urging for the US to be the one who takes initiative in the act.
Syngman Rhee 745 Korea, after the occupation of Japan had become a country divided into 2
halves, with a Soviet supported North and a US supported South. In 1949, the Soviets left
Korea to let North Korea handle themselves ,while the US left a couple months afterward,
handing control of the government to Syngman Rhee, a pro-US administration.
Liberation 745 Remember NSC-68? This is coming up again. NSC-68 is the policy that made
the US’s stance in foreign policy that of intervention. After the invasion of South Korea by the
North due to the lack of a strong military (Syngman Rhee did not have a big military), General
Douglas MacArthur, appointed by President Truman, was sent into the Korean Peninsula to help
South Korea. After taking back the ground that South Korea had lost, the US then went on a
mission of “liberation” in their words, forcing the North even higher north of the 38th parallel.
Truman Macarthur Controversy 745 General MacArthur was a general (hmm) and also a pretty
popular guy. He believed that the US should escalate the Korean War by attacking China to
prevent them from supporting North Korea. However, Truman didn’t want to start WWIII, and
fired MacArthur when he wouldn’t shut the fuck up about nuking China. However, MacArthur
was a popular guy, so by firing him Truman pretty much ruined his entire political career and
chance at further elections.
Wartime Economic Regulation 746 During the Korean War, the Office of Defense Mobilization
was set up to fight inflation by setting prices and discouraging Unions from asking for higher
wages. This didn’t work too well, so the president seized the railroads when they weren't on
Strike. Eventually Truman had to cave in to Union Demands.
The Korean War boosted the economy, but it also had the side effect of making people really
really really polarized against communism…
Economic Benefits of Massive Retaliation 776 John Foster Dulles was a corporate lawyer that
really really hated communism. He argued for the US to fight actively against communism in a
policy called “Massive Retaliation”. This meant that the US would use nuclear weapons to
threaten countries to not be communist. This led to a lot more government spending on
weapons, leading to more money in the economy I guess. it also would save money because
why fund army when have big bomb
DIen Bien Phu 776 The French colony of Vietnam was undergoing a communist Revolution due
to some Ho Chi Minh guy, so some wanted the US to intervene. However, they didn;t. What the
fuck is Dien Bien Phu??? IDK the book doesn't even mention the term. Note: Dien Bien Phu is
the battle that ended French colonial rule in Vietnam



[PAGE 209]

Recognizing Israel 777 On May 14 1948, after a lot of Zionist Efforts, the UN decided to
recognize Israel as its own thing. However, a lot of Palestinians were not too happy with their
land being considered some new country, leading to a lot of conflict and several wars over the
land that was disputed.
Suez Crisis 777 The US was dedicated to Israel, but it also needed to keep on good terms with
the oil rich Middle Eastern Countries, on which many American Industries relied on. This led to
the CIA helping stage a coup in Iran when the prime minister started acting less kindly to
American Corporations.
Why is this important? IDK but its here so i’ll put it here.
Well in Egypt, the leader of Egypt started trading with the USSR, leading to the US deciding to
not help Egypt build a Dam across the Nile. THis led to the Egyptian leader Gamal Abdel
Nasser Capturing the Suez Canal and saying he’ll tax the canal to pay for the dam.
And then Israel attacked Egypt for some reason, leading to a big ol fight over the Suez Canal
Between the British and French and Egyptians. The US didn’t want to start a fight with the USSr,
so they used the UN to convince Britain and France to withdraw and get Israel and Egypt to get
along.
This whole thing is a clusterfuck and the book is terrible with its pacing
Fidel Castro 777 So at this point, Cuba is still under the control of the US pretty much, due to
the crippling power of the American Corporations that are controlling the economy. This led to a
rebellion led by Fidel Castro to overthrow the US backed Dictator Fulgencio Batista. Castro then
implemented land reforms and limited the power of foreign (AMERICAN) corporations. When
the US began to embargo Cuba, they sought the USSR as an ally, and then they were allies
because they both hate the US.
Hungarian Revolution of 1956 778 Hungary had a revolution for democratic reforms, and then
the USSR pulled up to take advantage of the chaos and implement a communist government.
That’s it.
And Eisenhower did not intervene.
U2 CONTROVERSY (not mentioned) In the book, has its own segment
So basically the USSR and US were gonna have a diplomatic meeting in the summer of 1960
when a US U2 spy plane got caught lacking and was shot down by the USSR weeks before the
meeting. This led to a lot of tension and the meeting being called off.
So why is this important?
Well, the meeting was between Eisenhower and Khrushchev (Prime Minister of USSR)
So this wasn’t a good look for ol’ Eisenhower.



[PAGE 210]

Eisenhower’s Restraint 779 Eisenhower overall was a very conservative guy when it came to
intervening in the rise of communist governments. He realized that any real action by the US
against Communism would lead to a big war, and decided to not really intervene in anything.
In his farewell address, Eisenhower would warn against the “military industrial complex” and
“unwarranted influence” over other nations. However, his successors would market themselves
on being tough against communism.
GI Bill 741 The GI Bill was a bill which would serve as economic and educational assistance to
WWII veterans, it was successful in helping many soldiers who had lost a portion of their most
important years (years where they should have been in college) in readjusting to civilian life.
This most importantly, helped with curtailing the labor shortages that once followed recently
ended wars. The big thing (according to Hunneke) that we learned in class is (and you should
definitely know this too): It helped establish a STRONG MIDDLE CLASS.
Summary of stuff it did in addition to the thingy I said up top:
- Home loans
- Loans for starting small businesses
- Free college
Postwar Labor Unrest 741 Still even with the GI Bill, many people faced economic difficulties
especially in the manufacturing department where a bunch of products were cut out of the
market (all factories were turned into military factories), and as such inflation soared as well
because the US bought so much from these factories. Because of this, many industries went on
strike, including Electric, Steel, and Coal.
Truman”s Fair Deal 742 After the surrender of Japan, Truman submitted his 21 point Fair Deal
program to Congress. This would expand Social Security, raise the minimum wage by over
50%, and help with unemployment through rigorous government spending. In addition, he also
argued for a public housing and environmental project, and the government promoted scientific
research. Most important of all: national health insurance. The Fair Deal went into motion, and
although its intentions were good, the Fair Deal was stopped by conservatives who were very
absolute on lowering government spending, meaning that the Fair Deal had less money to work
with.
TLDR: Truman proposes the Fair Deal, which is New Deal 2.0 but with some more added
benefits but conservatives don’t like spending government money so the deal doesn’t go
through.
Taft Hartley Act 742 Senator Robert Taft was a Republican Conservative in Congress who was
a big big supporter of the less government spending thing. He advised congress to spend less



[PAGE 211]

funds to aid education or to increase wages and all of the good stuff that the majority of the US
needed. You remember the Wagner Act, yeah, the one that gave workers the right to unionize
and also real power? Well Conservatives REALLY did not like that one Act and they lobbied
HARD to get rid of it. Although they couldn’t get it overturned, Conservatives managed to get
the Taft-Hartley Act, which would make it ILLEGAL to require newly hired workers to join unions.
Democratic Defections 742 CRAZY term name btw. Truman was still very set on keeping the
New Deal going, or at least the dream of it. Truman was known for his eagerness to take action
and to make new reforms, which made him very unpopular with the conservatives and due to
the perception that his administration was weak, the Democratic party as well did not respect
him. Notably, 2 subparties left, Southern Conservatives and a new Progressive Party were
started in the Democratic party, leading to a loss in supporters for Truman.
Truman’s Surprising Victory 743 Truman was expected to get his ass kicked HARD by
republican Thomas E Dewey. However, Dewey kind of didn’t campaign much? And also Truman
went HARD on showing the people how the Republicans “did nothing and were good for
nothing”, proving his point by challenging the Republican Congress to implement all the
changes that they called for in 2 weeks. They did nothing, point proven. So Truman ends up
winning the election pretty closely.
Truman Stymied 744 Truman wanted to continue the Fair deal, which was a continuation of the
New Deal. However, Congress didn’t accept many of his changes, such as National health
insurance or anti Lynching laws.
Conflicting Views Of Nuclear Power 744 The Power seen by the nuclear bombs that were
dropped in Japan led to many different views on Nuclear Power. Many people feared nuclear
war with the USSR, but others saw Nuclear power as a source of cheap and clean energy.
The Fear people had of Nuclear Power was often seen in Media, with the Noir genre of movie
becoming popular, and the TWILIGHT ZONE, a show that often told stories that were based on
the aftermath or impact of Nuclear War, or of fear of communism and stuff like that.
“He’s Alive!” Goes hard W Episode btw.
Promise of Cheap Nuclear Power 744 Many people saw the potential of Nuclear Power
benefitting society, and apparently some poll said that about 66% of Americans who took the
poll thought Nuclear Power would end up benefiting society eventually.
Sources of the Red Scare 747 The Red Scare (the sequel) would reach it’s peak of red and
scaring at this point in the 1950s. One reason why is because Communism had a tangible face
and ideology through the USSR and Stalin. In addition, the US had been (kinda failing?) to
contain communism at this point, with China becoming communist and the Korean War not
going too well. People started fearing that Communism had taken root in the country.



[PAGE 212]

And uh some people got caught spying for the USSR. Pretty high ranking people too. That
might cause some public unrest…
Bonus Term yippee! HUAC the HUAC stands for the House Un-American Activities Committee
whose primary purpose was to publicize investigations to prove that the US government had
been allowing communism throughout the US, specifically in industries such as Hollywood.
Alger Hiss 748 Alger Hiss was a member of the State Department that was revealed to have
given classified information to the USSR. Whittaker Chambers showed off evidence called the
Pumpkin Papers (because he hid the evidence in a pumpkin to prevent it from being
destroyed) and uh it really showed that Hiss did in fact give away documents. However blah
blah blah it’s been too long to actually prosecute so he’s only arrested because of public outrage
and some Richard Nixon guy. The effects of the Alger Hiss case would end up trickling down to
the Democrat Party and the US as a whole, as people feared what other important government
departments were controlled by the COMMIES.
The McCarran Internal Security Act 748 The Truman administration in order to keep the US
citizens not super scared of spooky communism had a program where they would review the
loyalty of federal employees. J Edgar Hoover, the director of the FBI was one of these people
who investigated government employees, and in 1950 the McCarran Internal Security Act was
passed which would require all communist organizations to register under the government.
Truman vetoed it, and Congress then passsed it. I have genuinely no clue how this would work
but whatever.
Another name for this act is: “Subversive activities control act”.
Anticommunist Hysteria 749 Yeah. people did not like communism or communism adjacent
things. And a bunch of high ranking government officials caught being Communist Spies did not
in fact help the public image of communism. Basically people started to fear communism and
became fervently ANTIcommunist. And also also people feared being seen as Communist,
which basically led to one hell of a public landscape.
McCarthyism's Appeal 749 Oh boy we are getting to big McCarthy now. Joseph McCarthy was a
Republican senator from Wisconsin who made a big fuss about a sheet of paper he was holding
of 205 communists in the US State department. This spread mass hysteria amongst the US
since this was heavily publicized, and also his position as a senator made it very serious when
such an accusation was made. McCarthy then went on a RAMPAGE accusing just about
anybody of communism. People of all different backgrounds were put under scrutiny. If your
ethnicity was one that was “associated” with communism, Russian, Chinese, Etc, you were
probably seen as a communist. During this time of fear, you could be locked up, out of a job, or
put down as a criminal just for holding any sort of trait that could be associated with
communism.
Dwight Eisenhower 749 Dwight D Eisenhower was the next president in line after Truman’s loss
in office. After all, nobody wanted Robert Taft or Douglass MacArthur in office. Richard Nixon



[PAGE 213]

was his running mate. Dwight made it clear that his number one priority was to settle the conflict
in Korea, and Nixon on the other hand went on the offensive, attacking Democrats and became
a people pleaser for conservative Republicans. Eisenhower won the election, ending a 20 year
period of Democrat Presidents.
Goverment Spending 754 During the period up from WWII’s end to the 1960s, the US
experienced an economic boom of GDP growth of 250%, unemployment rates drilled into the
floor from 15% to 5%, and inflation was barely above 3% a year. As such, the government used
a bunch of this new money to build infrastructure. Schools were built, veterans got welfare, and
highways were sprouting up like weeds. Far and away however, was the growth of the military.
The US was gearing up for a possible war between the US and the USSR, and as such they
would enter such an arms race.
Suburban Grown 754 Suburbs started sprouting up everywhere, in fact, suburban populations
grew by 47% during the 1950s, and helped the economy grow due to the drastically large
middle class. Car purchases doubled, and American suburban life as we know it was born. One
important thing to note though was the Black Americans were almost never allowed into
suburban communities.
Favorable Climate 755 Warmer places like California Nevada and Arizona were a lot warmer
and drier, leading to more migrants West. LA in particular grew by an insane amount, with a
50% population rise from 1940-1960.
Keynesian Economics 755 Keynesian Economics was founded by this British guy named John
Keynes in the early 1920s which basically said that the government should step in to help the
economy. For example, the US handed out 1k a month to families during Covid, or China made
EV car ownership benefits to stimulate economic growth in the EV industry. Keynesian
Economics picked up steam during this time.
Ending Poverty Through Economic Growth 756 The idea was that with economic growth, the
rich would not have to “sacrifice in order to eliminate poverty”, and the nation would have a lot of
stuff to raise quality of life. I think what they’re trying to say with the rich is that the rich, with
more money, can afford to spend more money helping the poor? I don’t really get it the textbook
is kind of talking in riddles right now.
Corporate Consolidation 756 In the 1950s, a TON of corporations merged together. This was
happening because large corporations had more money to buy up smaller companies. As a
result, monopolies grew in the US, the rich got richer, and the poor got poorer. This was both
true for employees and corporations, as corporations were eager to keep workers happy in
order to keep them working, after all, strikes meant loss in profits.
The Postwar Contract 757 The Postwar Contract was a contract between employers and
employees in the 1950s, which would allow workers in manufacturing unions to get more wages
and benefits, and in return unions would basically be forced to shut up about problems.



[PAGE 214]

Basically it was “we have McDonalds at home” but instead it’s Burger King so it’s not
necessarily THAT terrible but still pretty terrible.
AFL CIO 757 The AFL stands for the American Federation of Labor and the CIO stands for the
Congress of Industrial Organizations. Putting aside a conflict that had been going on for 20
years, the 2 orgs decided to merge under the leadership of George Meany. Despite this merge,
tensions were still high and both sides believed the other was up to no good.
You can probably understand their tension: the AFL focused on skilled workers, where they had
many unions per industry and often expelled the unskilled workers to the CIO. For the CIO, they
organized all workers regardless of skill level into one industry. So there was obviously gonna
be some fighting.
Limited Gains for unorganized Workers 758 Unions made big strides in getting more wages and
benefits for workers, but laborers who were not part of unions did not get to partake in a great
deal of these benefits. In addition, the Taft Hartley Act also greatly halted the growth of unions in
the US.
Antibiotics 758 Remember how the US was sponsoring a lot of scientific development? Well
Antibiotics started to pick up steam in Europe in the 1930s, and they soon made their way to the
US. Funny enough, the textbook literally says nothing about how they made it to the US so I’m
literally just assuming.
Penicillin 758 In 1928, Alex Fleming, an English medical researcher discovered penicillin, and
some dudes at Oxford found a way to turn penicillin into a strong antibiotic. During WWII
however, they were unable to continue research on penicillin and instead the US took over the
rest of the procedure, which helped antibiotic science reach the US.
Salk Vaccine 759 Jonas Salk invented a polio vaccine! This was seen as so revolutionary that it
was given out for free by the government. Alber Sabin invented a version of the vaccine taken
via Sugar Cube (WHY DON'T WE HAVE THIS NOW????), so the government was able to
really spread the vaccine around the nation.
This basically eradicated Polio from the US with how widespread and effective the vaccines
were.
Hm. maybe we need some big disease so people remember why vaccines are a good thing.
DDT 759 DDT or dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane C14H9Cl5 was a chemical that was invented
by Paul Muller in 1939. It was a chemical that was very, VERY, good at killing insects, and
SEEMED TO have very little effect on people. DDT was used to cure malaria outbreaks during
WWII, and did a pretty good job at killing mosquitoes and stuff.
And then people found out it gives people cancer and also kills birds so it was banned. Much
later though.



[PAGE 215]

Invention of Television 759 Yeah people made Televisions. In the 1940s and 50s, scientists
developed the technology for televisions using vacuum tubes and Transistors and stuff. Uh idk
why it goes into such detail on how TVS worked?
Basically TVs are a thing and the technology is quickly also used to make the first computers
____________________________________________________________________________
UNIVAC 760 The Universal Automatic Computer is the first computer that could handle both
NUMBERS and LETTERS at the same time!!!! It used tapes storage and like, punch cards to
store information and perform calculations. The First major usage of the UNIVAC (ON
TELEVISION) was to (correctly) predict that Eisenhower would win in a landslide. This
prediction seemed revolutionary to many, and really made people aware about what the hell a
darn computer is.
THe Hydrogen Bomb 760 In 1952, the US made a bigger bomb using Hydrogen. This bomb
was much bigger and more powerful due to using Fusion (putting stuff together) rather than
using Fission (splitting the atom)
In addition to making a bigger bomb, both the US and USSR were working hard to make
automated systems that would fly to the target and blow up without the need for someone to
drop the bomb.
This is also the part where the US recruited Nazi Scientists to make ICBMS and stuff.
The Shock of Sputnik 761 In 1957, the USSR announced they put a thing (satellite named
Sputnik) into space. This led to the US and much of American society becoming obsessed with
space, as they saw this as some massive L or something. The US would throw tons of money at
scientists and also at schools to start teaching science about space and stuff.
The US also created NASA, and they threw people into space and stuff, yadda yadda yadda.
THe Apollo Program 761 The Apollo Program was the main thing NASA was meant for at the
time, as they were able to throw Neil Armstrong, Edwin Aldrin, and Micheal Collins into space
and land on the moon.
NASA then pivoted to the idea of a Space Shuttle, a plane like aircraft that could take off, go to
space, and then land back on the Earth multiple times. The Government really really pushed the
program until in 1986 when the Challenger exploded, killing 7 people including a teacher that
won a raffle.
And they could have killed Big Bird! He was gonna be on the shuttle but they couldn’t
think of a way to get Big Bird onto the Shuttle, which was unfortunately (or fortunately) not
designed for 8'2 birds.



[PAGE 216]

that would have sucked if he died. Big Bird is a better person than at least 30% of the people we
learn about in APUSH.
Consumer Crazes 762 Because marketing was starting to be a thing, there were the first ever
consumer crazes, where people rushed to buy a thing. Like Hula Hoops. And Mickey Mouse
merch! And also Disneyland became a thing because people were marketed disney products so
much. wow.
Interstate highways 763 The Federal Highway Act of 1956 put $25 Billion dollars into building
40,000 miles of highways. This linked together pretty much every state and major city in the US
by road, leading to the decline of the railroad. It also paid for itself through the economic boost
of having a bunch of workers, and also taxes on gas. And like toll booths. And stuff like that.
Levittown 763 We read about this! Suburbs became a thing, and not only were they a source of
housing for many White veterans, they were also racist as fuck. Levittown specifically was a
town that used Mass Produced Houses to quickly make a bunch of houses, and sell them for
cheap. Many people who had assistance through the GI bill were able to buy these houses.
Except for African Americans. They weren’t allowed to buy houses here.
A side effect of that racism was that Urban City Neighborhoods quickly became full of poor
minorities, and Suburbs became the new place for White people to live in White people only
areas.
Prevailing Gender Roles Reinforced 764 During the Suburban Era, there was a huge
conservative push to get Women back into domestic work and cooking and stuff. There was a
huge cultural emphasis on Family life and lots of prejudice against women in the workplace.
Dr Benjamin Spock 764 Dr Benjamin Spock wrote a book called “Baby and Child Care” which
emphasized Child care that would become really really popular in the 50s. He came up with the
revolutionary idea of prioritizing a child’s development over your own needs. He basically said
that parents should help their children grow and become their own people, and that the needs of
the parents should be subordinated to the needs of the Child.
Why are there 3 paragraphs dedicated to this?
Social Consequences of Television 765 Not only did Video kill the radio star, but it also became
the new way people got their Sports, Entertainment, and information. Television was a gold
mine for advertisers and marketers, and televised sports became one of the biggest industries
in America.
Televisions Homogenizing Message 765 howMany TV Shows at the time created a very
common stereotype of American Life with White Middle Class Suburban families where men
worked and women stayed at home and did all the domestic work.



[PAGE 217]

But there were TV shows that differed from this, like the Twilight Zone.
And there were also some racist Ss like Amos ‘n Andy which was pretty much a vaudeville show
on TV.
Yeah imma go on break i need to eat.
Echo Park 766 Echo Park was a valley in the Dinosaur National Monument, it was a place that
became a hot topic in the 1950s. In the early 1950s, the federal government’s Bureau of
Reclamation proposed building a dam across the Green River, which runs through Echo Valley,
to create a lake for recreation and a source of hydroelectric power. This made the American
environmental movement, which had been quiet after its defeat at Hetch Hetchy Valley, come
back from its slumber.
TLDR - Echo Park was a valley in Dinosaur National Monument that became controversial in
the 50s when the gov decided to build a dam on the Green River to implement hydroelectricity
and make a recreational lake. It makes the environmentalists mad, which revives the
environmentalist movement after they got shit on at Hetch Hetchy Valley a while back.
Sierra Club Reborn 766 The Sierra Club, motivated after Bernard DeVoto published an essay
talking about the situation in Echo Park and other National Parks, moved into action. The
controversy helped elevate a new leader, David Brower, who transformed the club into the
nation’s leading environmental organization.
TLDR - The Sierra Club becomes active again after the Echo Park controversy. Led by David
Brower, it transformed the Sierra Club into the nation’s major force in the environmental
movement.
Growth of Specialized Education 766 The American educational system responded to the
demands of this increasingly organized society by experimenting with changes in curriculum
and philosophy. Elementary and secondary schools gave increased attention to the teaching of
science, mathematics, and foreign languages. Universities were expanding their curricula to
provide more opportunities for students to develop specialized skills.
TLDR - In the 50s, schools began focusing on science, math and foreign languages. Colleges
began to teach specialized skills. Also, the AP exams start existing (also the reason why ur
taking this class).
The Beat Generation’s Critiques 767 The most caustic critics of bureaucracy, and of middle
class society, were a group of young poets, writers, and artists generally known as the “beats”.
They wrote harsh critiques of what they considered the sterility and conformity of American life,
the meaninglessness of American politics, and the banality of popular culture.
TLDR - The Beat Generation were a bunch of artists, writers and poets who hated the
consumerism, conformity, pop culture and boringness of middle class America. (basically lost
generation 2.0)
Elvis Presley 768 We all know who Elvis Fucking Presley is. The King of Rock ‘N’ Roll, Elvis
Presley became a symbol of a youthful determination to push at the borders of the conventional
and acceptable. Everything about him was attractive to a young audience, from his looks, his
fashion style, and his music and performances made him extremely popular among young
Americans.



[PAGE 218]

TLDR - Evlis Presley becomes the “King of Rock n’ Roll” and convinces young people to rebel
and challenge traditional societal norms through different fashion, music and style.
Rock N Roll’s Black Roots 768 Presley’s music, like most other early white rock musicians, drew
heavily from black rhythm and blues traditions, which appealed to some white youths. Sam
Phillips, a local record promoter, reported said in the early 1950s: “If I could find a white man
with a Negro sound, I could make a billion dollars.” Soon after, he found Presley.
TLDR - Elvis’s music was actually influenced by African American rhythm and blues. Sam
Philips is credited with bringing that sound to the white audiences.
Payola Scandal 770 Record promoters were so eager to get their songs on the air that some
routinely made secret payments to station owners and disc jockeys to encourage them to
showcase their artists. These payments, which became known as “payola,” produced a brief but
deep series of scandals when they were exposed in the late 50s and 60s.
TLDR - The “Payola” Scandal was when record promoters secretly paid DJs to play certain
songs. These payments were known as “payola” which introduced a series of scandals that
were exposed in the late 50s and 60s. Basically, corruption in the music industry!
THe Other America 770 While the white suburbs looked pretty nice, there was a lot of poverty in
other parts of America. More than 20% of Americans lived below the poverty line, and many
lived barely above the line.
● Persistent Poverty 770 Many African Americans and other minority groups were pretty
much all in poverty. These people often ended up living in Ghetto neighborhoods in
urban areas.
Declining Agricultural prices 770 Farmers are struggling to make ends meet in the 50s. In 1948,
they had received 8.9 percent of the national income, and in 1956, they received only 4.1
percent. This is in part due to the shrinking farm population. In just 1956, almost 10 percent of
the rural population moved into or was absorbed by cities. Also, because of enormous surpluses
in basic stables, prices fell 33 percent in those years.
TLDR - Thanks to the farmer’s population shrinking, farmers are now struggling to make ends
meet. Lots of surpluses from helping WW2 made prices fall and also, the rural population was
absorbed into cities.
Black Urban Migration 771 As white families moved from cities to suburbs, many inner city
neighborhoods became vast repositories for the poor, “ghettos” from which there was no easy
escape. The growth of these neighborhoods owed much to a vast migration of African
Americans out of the countryside and into industrial cities. More than 3 million black men and
women moved from the South to northern cities between 1940 and 1960. Similar migrations
from Mexico and Puerto Rico expanded poor Hispanic neighborhoods at the same time.
Urban Renewal 772 Urban Renewal was the long standing policy that was used in cities to help
the poorest areas. Rotting buildings would be torn down and during this time after WWII, over
400,000 buildings were torn down, displacing 1.5 million people as a result. Urban Renewal
turned from that into a form of rehousing for poor residents due to this mass amount of people
losing their homes from a project that was supposed to help them. Unfortunately due to the



[PAGE 219]

sporadic nature of these buildings being built, the buildings ended up often becoming slums and
heavily damaged.
Buisness Leaders NEw Outlook 774 Now that 20 years of Democrat presidents had passed, the
Republican party took hold and with it came it’s administration full of: businessmen. However,
unlike our old friends Andrew Carnegie and Co., these guys believed a little bit in helping other
people out, no way!
Federal Highway Act of 1956 The Federal Highway Act authorized 25 billion dollars for a ten
year project that built over 40,000 miles of interstate highways, the largest public works project
in American history. The program was to be funded through a highway “trust fund,” whose
revenues would come from new taxes on the purchase of fuel, automobiles, trucks, and tires.
Army McCarthy Hearings 775 Y’all remember Joseph McCarthy (Holy moly the dude who started
McCarthyism???) ? The guy who locked up just about anybody opposed to him or was deemed
a “communist”? Yeah he’s back. But this time, McCarthy has the guts to accuse the fucking
MILITARY of supporting communists. With such an accusation, it was only a matter of time
before the rest of the US which was DEFINITELY NOT a big fan of Joseph turned on him, and
as such, McCarthy was put on national television and fired in front of a live audience. Our story
DOES have a happy ending :D
PAGE 200 WE DID IT GANG
WOOHOO
FUCK YEAH okay now i go sleep
READING QUIZ#7 INFO ENDS HERE
READING QUIZ#8 INFO STARTS HERE
Brown V Board of Education 772 In considering the legal segregation of a Kansas public school
system, the Court rejected its own 1896 Plessy v Ferguson which barred Black Americans from
entering segregated schools not meant for African Americans decision in the Brown v Board of
Education case. This decision was the culmination of many decades of effort by black
opponents of segregation, including a group of NAACP lawyers who trained at Howard
University under Charles Houston.



[PAGE 220]

Separate But Equal Doctrine Overturned 772 In Topeka Kansas, an African American girl that
lived right next to an white elementary school was forced to drive miles to a segregated public
school in order to get her an education. This was brought up to the supreme court where they
found that access to public education needs to be more equal and as such, the separate but
equal doctrine was overturned. This was followed up in 1954 when the Supreme Court released
another decision that urged schools to desegregate ASAP. So Big Ws.
Massive Resistance 772 In some communities, compliance came relatively quickly and quietly.
More often, however, strong local opposition produced long delays and bitter conflicts. Some
school districts ignored the ruling altogether, while others attempted to circumvent it with purely
toke efforts to integrate. More than 100 southern members of Congress signed a “manifesto” in
1956 denouncing the Brown decision and urged their constituents to defy it.
TLDR - After Brown v Board of education, many southern whites opposed it. Some states
refused to comply, delayed integration or signed the 1956 "Southern Manifesto" which resisted
ruling.
Little Rock 773 President Eisenhower met the Brown decision with skepticism, and once said it
had set back progress on race relations “at least fifteen years”. But in September 1957, he
faced a case of direct state defiance of federal authority and had to act. An angry white mob
tried to prevent implementation of the Brown decision by blockading the entrances to the school,
and the Governor refused to do anything to stop it. Eisenhower responded by mobilizing the
National Guard and sending troops to Little Rock.(This should sound familiar)
TLDR - In 1957, 9 African American students tried to go to a high school in Little Rock but faced
violent resistance. Dwight D. Eisenhower sent the National Guard to enforce the integration
after the governor refused.
Montgomery Bus Boycott 773 Rosa Parks, which you guys have all heard of, started the
Montgomery Bus Boycott when she refused to give up her seat to a white passenger in 1955 on
a Montgomery bus. When she was forced to move, African American communities nearby
caught wind and started the Montgomery Bus Boycott, a boycott in which Black citizens opted to
either walk or bike to and from work, reducing a major source of income from the Bus, leading to
the desegregation of busses in Montgomery when economic pressure started to sink in on
Montgomery.
MLK’s Strategy 773 King’s approach to black protest was based on nonviolence. He took from
the teachings of Mahatma Gandhi, Henry David Thoreau and from the Christian doctrine. He
produced an approach to racial struggle that captured the moral high ground for his supporters.
He urged African Americans to engage in peaceful demonstrations and to respond to hate with
love.
Legacy of WWII 774 The textbook raises an interesting question: why did civil rights movements
really start to gain traction in this time period? I’m not talking about the people that were trying to
work day and night hour by hour for the equal rights of all people, but rather the reason why
people who were prior not interested in Civil Rights all of a sudden were on board. This has to



[PAGE 221]

do with the millions of brave African American men and women who fought or helped
manufacture for WWII. All Americans gained more appreciation for their citizens who went to
fight Hitler, and it makes you really reconsider whether or not it’s a good idea to treat your
neighbor who just 20 years ago kicked a nazi in the throat like a piece of shit.
Urban Black Middle Class 774 The urban black middle class had been developing for decades,
but it began to flourish after the war. Much of the impetus for the civil rights movement came
from the leaders of urban black communities, and much also of it came from students at black
colleges and universities.
SNCC 786 The SNCC was the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee, a group of black
students that fought against segregation with sit-ins and other smaller forms of protest.
Freedom Rides 786 Freedom Rides were a tactic endorsed by the CORE (Congress of Racial
Equality) that fought against the segregation of Buses in the south. Freedom Riders tried to
force the desegregation of buses by riding interstate buses into the segregated South, and were
met with savage enough violence that JFK had to send in the army and also pass laws
integrating buses and trains.
This led to the SNCC and other organizations fighting against segregation with greater strength
and conviction.
Birmingham 787 Birmingham, Alabama was a city notable for its amount of segregation and
racism. The Police Commissioner Eugene “Bull” Connor was infamous for using violence
against peaceful protesters through methods such as:
Attack Dogs
Tear Gas
Cattle Prods (electric ones jesus)
And Firehoses
And this was all on TV and against small children as well. Yeah it was not received well by the
public (who probably didn’t really do anything about it)
Also the governor of Alabama George Wallace was against integration and protested Black
students going to the University of Alabama, and he only gave up when ROBERT FUCKING
KENNEDY showed up to tell him to fuck off.
He(Wallace) was still popular because a lot of white people are racist as fuck and didn’t want
integration.
Also at the same time NAACP member Medgar Evers was murdered? Was it related? The book
makes it sound like it was but idk.
March on Washington 787 In August of 19 on 63, led by Martin Luther King Jr and supported by
President Kennedy, Martin Luther King led 200,000 people on a march down the Mall of



[PAGE 222]

Washington DC, giving possibly one of if not the most famous speech in American history (you
know this one cmon). A couple months later, President Lyndon B Johnson managed to get the
most comprehensive civil rights bill passed in the nation's history called the Civil Rights Act of
1964.
Freedom Summer 787 The US was not yet finished however, as voting rights were not yet
available to all US citizens! And as such in the summer of 1964, thousands of people worked to
secure equal voting rights for all Americans regardless of race, thus naming it “Freedom
Summer”. As a side effect of the push for greater equality, white people became a little more
violent as well…
Voting Rights Act 788 After a campaign in Alabama organized by Martin Luther King Jr in March
1965 left 2 Civil Rights activists dead, and along with brutal television coverage of activists
being beaten by Selma’s police department, the nation was sent into a state of horror, driving
even more support for Civil Rights and as such allowing President Lyndon B Johnson to pass
the Civil Rights Act of 1965, or as we call it the Voting Rights Act, giving federal protection to
African Americans trying to vote (so they wouldn’t be beat up for trying to be in a mile radius of
voting booths). It also got rid of that literacy test thingy if u remember .
Due Jure and De Facto segregation 789 This term is just giving us the difference between Due
Jure and De Facto segregation. Due Jure means segregation by law, so Jim Crow laws, and De
Facto segregation is segregation by practice, so it is the majority that carries about the atrocities
of segregation.
Watts Riot 790 The Watts Riot was in LA in 1964, when a white police officer was in the middle
of a traffic stop when he decided to stop what he was doing to beat up some black guy watching
the arrest. This led to a massive race riot and a week of violence.
People were rioting, targeting white people, burning buildings, looting stores, and shooting
policemen with snipers and stuff.
Eventually the National Guard had to show up and stop the riots.
ANd then in 1966, a lot more riots happened.
And then in 1967 even more riots.
Basically a lot of race riots everywhere, which led to some white people questioning the cause
of racial equality due to the amount of violence. Sadly the message a lot of Americans got from
the riots was “we need more police officers and stricter laws” and not “maybe we should be less
racist”
Shift from Integration to Racial Distinction 790 Similar to Marcus Garvey (remember him?), at
this time an increasing number of African Americans were becoming disillusioned with



[PAGE 223]

integration. This led to a newer movement focused on Black empowerment and distinction from
Whites.
The movement as a whole focused on the importance of African American Culture and the
rejection of cultural practices that were borrowed from white society.
It also had the side effect of creating a schism in the Civil Rights movement.
Increasingly Divided Civil Rights Movement 791 There was a divide between more “traditional”
Civil Rights organizations that sought integration through nonviolent protest like the NAACP and
Urban League, and the more Radical Groups like the SNCC and Black Panther Party that called
for radical and sometimes violent action against racism.
For example The Black Panther Party was founded to defend Black rights, even if that defense
meant violence. The Black Panther Party was much more armed and willing to fight than other
groups. They weren’t really violent in practice, but the image of a bunch of armed black people
led to the public image that the group was a bunch of militant radicals.
Nation of Islam 791 The Nation of Islam was a group that taught African Americans to take
responsibility for their own lives and to live by a strict code of behavior. It also taught complete
independence from whites. THe most notable member of this group was Malcom X , an
influential spokesman that was notable for his stance of uncompromising opposition to racism.
He believed in the idea of self defense, using violence if necessary. He was assassinated in
1965, and it was due to rivals from within the Nation of Islam or something. (wasnt it someone
from his old group?)
This truly is the American History Connecting with the Past of all time.
Native Americans Grievances 813
- Small pop hella poverty plus unemployment
- Native Americans had a lot of valid reasons to protest over. Despite being less that 1%
of the population, Native Americans often made over $1000 LESS than African
Americans
- . In addition, almost half of all Native Americans in reservations were jobless, with an
unemployment 10 TIMES as much as the National Rate
- This had the side effect of lowering the lifespan 20 years less than the National Average,
with a youth suicide rate 100 TIMES THE NATIONAL AVERAGE .
- After John Collier, the Commissioner of Indian Affairs resigned, a new policy of
“Termination” was established where the Federal Government went “fuck it” and
withdrew all recognition of Tribes as legal identities, and imposed all US laws and
whatever on Native American tribes. This was to try and force Native Americans to
assimilate
The Failure of Termination 814



[PAGE 224]

Termination did lead to a weakening of Native American Legal rights, but the corruption of the
Termination program led to the program being so fought against that the Eisenhower
Administration effectively 360 noscoped the program from being able to do anything
AIM(American Indian Movement) 815
- 1961, 400 members from 67 tribes discussed something called Declaration of Indian
Purpose , AIM formed in 1968
- Aim Stands for the American Indian Movement
- Immediate political progress with the Indian civil rights act 1968
- AIM focused on getting the US to honor the (very many) treaties that they made and
subsequently ignored.
- The Pressure of AIM led to Nixon promising increased tribal self-determination and
federal aid, but there were still protests because the US had a very bad track record of
honoring their agreements.
Occupation of Wounded Knee 815
- Feb 1973 at Wounded Knee, South Dakota reservation Indigenous peoples organized by
AIM (American Indian Movement) protest ed the continuing mistreatment and lack of
funding for Indigenous peoples by occupying Wounded Knee because it was a spot
where the US Cavalry had killed 300 Sioux peoples in 1890.
- They were there for two months and demanded radical change and for the gov to honor
past treaties
- One Indian dead another wounded
Important Legal Victories 816
- In COurt Cases like United States V Wheeler , the Supreme court confirmed that Native
American Tribes could not be “terminated” and had the authority to impose their own
taxes on their land. County of Oneida V Oneida Indian Nation led to over 100,000 acres
of land being reclaimed by the Oneida Tribe
Surging Latino Immigration 816 Latino/Hispanic Americans were the fastest growing minority group
in the US, with some Latino Americans being in the US since the Mexican American War. Others
immigrated during WWII with the Bracero Program. Even after the war, many Mexican Americans
continued to enter the US undocumented. However in the 1960s and 70s, the amount of Mexican
Americans had surged, beginning to outnumber African Americans.
“Chicano” Activism 816 Partly due to Language barriers and the Family Centered Mexican Culture
that many immigrants held, Latino Unions grew very slowly at first, but in the 1960s, Younger
Mexican Americans began to call themselves Chicanos as a way of emphasizing the shared culture
of Spanish Speaking Americans. Chicanos often advocated for what was basically a Mexican
version of the Black Power movement.
Cesar Chavez 816 One of the most notable Union Workers and a well known name overall, Cesar
Chavez was a Latino Farmworker who created the United Farm Workers organization to strike
against growers and fight for increased wages. At the time, many Southern California farmers often
paid Latino workers pretty much nothing and had them working in what was basically slavery with a
small wage. Allying with CORE and SNCC, Chanvez campaigned a national Grape Boycott and also



[PAGE 225]

for the support of Robert Kennedy. He eventually won against the Grape Farmers and got his union
recognized so good for him you know
“Stonewall Riot” 817 Another important minority group that began to openly fight for rights and
recognition was the LGBTQ+ Community.
The Stonewall Inn was a bar in New York City that was notable for it’s LGBTQ+ patrons. On June 27
1969, the Police decided to raid the bar and arrest everyone for the crime of being gay (they
assumed everyone in the bar was gay). At this point everyone was fed up with the police harassing
the bar, and this led to the police being attacked, and then someone started a fire in the Stonewall
Inn, and then things escalated into a Riot.
The Stonewall Riot really made the Gay Liberation Movement public thing, with new organizations
springing up in the wake of the Riots. In addition, Public discussion on LGBTQ+ stuff became a lot
less taboo and more openly discussed.
Impact of the Gay Liberation Movement 818 The Gay liberation movement led to a lot of people
gaining the strength to only come out as gay and demand the recognition of gay relationships as
legitimate. Even through the AIDS epidemic and other events, the LGBTQ+ gained several legal
victories. In the 1990s especially, there were many wins and a couple losses for the LGBTQ+
community. For example, the “Don’t Ask Don’t Tell” Policy was created as a weak compromise
between the Military and the LGBTQ Community.
- Someone add more to this typing on a chromebook is miserable.
- Oh nooo typing on a chromebook how horrible!!!!
The Feminine Mystique 819 A book written by Betty Friedan, which wrote about the true feelings
of the American housewife and how although they are living what should be a “perfect” life they
are really just living a mundane life in which they are basically fully controlled by their husbands.
The book brought mass attention across the US about the state of women’s role in society in the
suburban age, either through newfound support or extreme criticism.
NOW Founded 819 National Organization for Women, founded in the 60s and greatly influenced
by The Feminine Mystique by Betty Friedan, they fought for the equal opportunity of women in
workplaces (Wage gap still exists), especially the fact that women couldn’t work in a lot of
industries.
From google: it also asked for greater legal equality, reproductive rights and the Equal rights
amendment using grassroots activism.
New Directions in the Women’s Movement 819 Seeing little change in their way of life in
addition to continued prejudice even in civil rights movements, women’s movements began to
ramp up at an incredible rate. Specifically, The Feminine Mystique outlined the problems they
faced perfectly.
Political and Economic Success 820 Women’s movements during this time period also made
great strides, specifically, the government officially announced the work-related sexism as an



[PAGE 226]

official problem, and in addition all-male colleges(such as Yale or Princeton) slowly started to
open their doors to female students, and all-women colleges started opening their doors to male
students. By 1970, 90% of all women with degrees were working, and 60% of all married
women were also working, thus marking the start of the “2 career household” in which both
parents worked (the family we are used to).
Failure of ERA 821 ERA is the Equal Rights Amendment, which was passed by Congress in the
70s, it was proposed by feminists and would… uh… textbook doesn’t say. In fact this entire
thing is barely 2 sentences. Thanks textbook. The push for this amendment slowly died down
however, thus was a “failure”.
But what the ERA was going to do was provide women with more marriage rights, specifically
equal rights in divorce, property ownership and employment. (Thanks google search engine!)
The ERA was stopped by the efforts of Phyllis Shlafly, who said that “Yeah uh a majority of
women do actually want to stay at home all day do nothing and have their rights stripped away
from them”. If you already didn’t like her enough, she was a catalyst in Ronald Reagan’s
presidential campaign. Not much to like about her. Not a girlboss or a girlfailure, just a prick.
Roe v. Wade 821 A part of feminism that hasn’t really been touched up on till now is the idea
that women should be entitled to their own body and be able to take action for sexual assault or
harm (crazy how it was never considered before). Specifically, women were facing an issue with
lack of birth control methods and the fact that abortion was illegal , and as such in 1973, the
Supreme Court ruled in Roe v. Wade that abortion was a legal right for women across the
country.
Unfortunately on Jun 24, 2024 , Roe v. Wade was overturned and now(as of 2024) half of the
US States has made abortion completely illegal.
READING QUIZ#8 INFO ENDS HERE
READING QUIZ#9 INFO STARTS HERE
Know the difference between vietnamization, containment and detente. Also know what type of
music was produced during this time, it should be folk music. Also, know which American
leaders were assassinated in 1968, it would be MLK and RFK. I would not recommend using
this doc for this specific quiz, there is a lot of information not here.
Election of 1960 782 In the 1960 Election, John F Kennedy would win the election due to his
appealing public image and political views. He promised a set of reforms on the scale of the



[PAGE 227]

New Deal, and also argued for a massive tax cut. He also used his winning personality to win
voters.
“Flexible Response” 792 Flexible response was Kennedy’s foreign policy of not using atomic
weapons as the only way to stop communism. Kennedy believed that the US should be
preparing for more Third World countries becoming communist, and that belief led to the
expansion of the “Green Berets” or guerrilla fighters.
Kennedy also was more flexible in negotiations, creating many projects designed to help
develop and stabilize Latin American Countries.
Bay of Pigs 792 A failed assault on Cuba, the CIA funded and trained a group of anti Castro
Cubans to fight and invade Cuba. The Cubans expected US air support and a massive public
response, both of which did not happen. Kennedy was scared of the US starting a war through
direct intervention, and chose not to help the rebel Cubans win. Uh. they did not have a “nah id
win” moment in fact and lost instead.
Cuban Missile Crisis 793 The Cuban Missile Crisis was a thing where the USSR was not very
happy about US missiles in Turkey and Italy, and therefore teamed up with Cuba to put USSR
Missiles in Cuba. To the Americans, this was an unprecedented aggression, but to everyone
with a brain this was a probably defensive thing. Basically the US was planning to maybe
invade Cuba for real this time, but also blockaded the USSR from sending stuff to Cuba.
Basically the end result was the US took their missiles out of Italy and Turkey, and the USSR
took their missiles out of Cuba.
Of course the book did not mention Turkey or Italy at all, but well…
This term over here is not explicitly mentioned in the textbook.
Kennedy Assassinated 783 Ok so they talk about him dying before anything he actually did????
On November 22 1963, JFK was shot in the head and throat by Lee Harvey Oswald during a
presidential motorcade. There was a massive amount of mourning by the AMerican people, and
the circumstances around JFK’s death led to a lot of conspiracy theories.
After JFK died, his vice president Lyndon Johnson became the president. He had many views
differing from Kennedy, but they both believed in using their powers to create change.
Intervention in the Dominican Republic 793 Lyndon Johnson (the guy who stepped up after
Kennedy was assassinated) intervened in the Dominican Republic after a 1961 assassination of
Dictator Rafael Trujillo. This assassination led to a bunch of groups fighting for control of the
nation. In 1965, a pro Castro guy named Juan Bosch was going to win, so the US sent in
30,000 troops to “mildly influence” the election results.
The Vietminh 794 So Vietnam was a colony of France up until this point, and then a Nationalist
movement called the Vietminh, led by Ho Chi Minh (who is a communist) began to liberate
Vietnam from the Fr*nch. He started a whole revolution against the French, and Truman



[PAGE 228]

decided to not intervene. The US did foot the bill for France’s war though, but stopped when the
French lost at Dien Bien Phu. After that battle, the French dipped from Vietnam and the country
was independent.
Geneva Conf. 795 (This was the Geneva Accords) A n international conference that was planned
to settle the Korea land dispute and also Vietnam. The conference led to a cease fire and a
partition of Vietnam at the 17th Parallel. The Vietminh would control the North, and a Pro
Western government would be set up in the south. Ok so here is the big part. They decided an
election would be held in 1956 to decide which government would control all of Vietnam .
Ngo Dinh Diem 796 Ngo Dinh Diem was the leader of the Southern Vietnamese government,
and he was pretty ok at first . With the help of the CIA, he weakened some religious groups and
mafia groups that challenged the new government. Because of this, the US saw Diem as a very
good leader (for the US).
However, the guy correctly figured out that he realistically did not have a chance to win that
1956 election (due to the whole being pretty much a US puppet ruler thing), so he used his
power to try and prevent the election from happening. This was not taken well by the North.
The NLF 796 The National Liberation Front or the Viet Cong was a group allied with Northern
Vietnam that fought to reunify the country under Ho Chi Minh. THe NLF began destabilizing
South Vietnam, and was killing about 4000 South Vietnamese government officials per year,
which is not very good for their government.
Diem Overthrown 796 The US could see the writing on the wall for Diem, and knew he was
gonna fail because of his lack of willingness to compromise or like, improve the situation at all.
Also Diem decided to persecute many Buddhists, which was bad because that was a decent
amount of South Vietnam and that whole thing led to a bunch of protests and self immolations.
55So JFK “approved” some South Vietnamese Generals staging a Coup to assassinate Diem
(yay) and his advisors and brother (boo). The new government(S) that popped up afterward
were even more unstable so oh well.
Pressure for American Intervention 796 There were a lot of small factors that led to Johnson’s
intervention in Vietnam. Johnson felt like he had to prove his worthiness for the office due to him
being put in there as a replacement to JFK. Many of his advisors told Johnson that the US had
an obligation to fight against the spread of communism. In addition, the Containment Doctrine
applied fully to Vietnam.
Gulf of Tonkin Resolution 796 The Gulf of Tonkin resolution was a resolution passed by
congress that authorized the president to protect American forces and “prevent further
aggression” in Vietnam. This was basically the legal authorization for Johnson escalating the
Vietnam War.



[PAGE 229]

Mounting Casualties 797 The Vietnam war would lead to a lot of people being sent to Vietnam
(no way). IN 1965, there were 180,000 Americans in Vietnam, by 1967, 500,000 American
Soldiers would be fighting in Vietnam. By 1966, more than 4000 Americans were killed, which
demoralized the US.
Strategy of “Attrition” 798 The US was planning to use their much higher number of soldiers and
number of bombs to eventually force the Vietnamese to give up through sheer damage and
numbers. However, the US found that the North Vietnamese were willing to fight a lot harder
than expected, so this strategy didn’t really do the demoralizing that it was intended to do.
Also it had the side effect of having a lot of bombs dropped and also a lot of soldiers killed
Like a zerg rush but it didn’t work and now the US is taking anL (Ryan what is a zerg rush) (isnt
it that google easter egg game that doesnt work anymore?)
“Hearts and Minds” 799 The “pacification” program, intended to push the Viet Cong from areas
chosen by the US and then “pacify” those regions by winning the “hearts and minds” of the
people, was a crucial part of the American strategy but was abandoned over time. American
forces were not adept at establishing the kind of rapport with provincial Vietnamese that the Viet
Cong had created.
Growing Opposition to War 800 By the end of 1967, American students who opposed the war
had become a significant political force. Peace marches in New York, Washington DC, and other
cities drew broad attention to the antiwar movement. Opposition to the war became a central
issue in left-wing politics and in the culture of colleges and universities.
War-Induced Inflation 800 Johnson’s commitment to fighting the war while continuing his Great
Society reforms(“Guns and butter”) proved to be impossible to maintain. The inflation rate rose
from 2 percent to 6 percent in just two years. In order to combat this, Johnson asked for a tax
increase which was necessary to stop inflation from growing, and in return conservatives
received a six billion dollar reduction in Great Society funding.
Political and Psychological Defeat 801 While American forces were able to combat the Tet
offensive, and even severely weaken the NLF, it was a political defeat for the administration.
Tet offensive - Viet cong and north vietnamese forces pays visit (invades) to the south, targeting
100 cities and towns in the south during the lunar new year holiday. It fucked up Johnson’s
popularity and shocked the American public, leading to Americans hating the war even more.
Robert Kennedy 803 Big Robert Kennedy DECLINED an invitation by democrats to be their
candidate, and then entered the campaign on his own. Kennedy, and the Democrat backed
Eugene McCarthy, curb stomped the president in polls and forced Lyndon Johnson to withdraw
from the presidential race.



[PAGE 230]

Riots 803 MLK’s tragic death produced an outpouring of grief, and, among African Americans,
also produced anger. Major riots broke out in more than sixty American cities. Forty-three
people died; more than 3,000 were injured, and 27,000 people were arrested.
The “Kennedy Legacy” 803 Robert Kennedy, who was viewed as a colder, more ruthless agent
of his more appealing brother, had emerged as a figure of enormous popular appeal. More than
JFK, Robert identified his hopes with the American “underclass”(Blacks, Hispanics, Native
Americans, the poor). He, much more than John, shaped what some consider the “Kennedy
legacy”, a set of ideas that, for a time, was central to American liberalism.
And what was the Kennedy legacy? It was the commitment to using the government to help the
powerless. The passions Kennedy aroused made his violent death a particularly shattering
experience for many Americans.
Democratic National Convention 804 Even the most optimistic observers were predicting a
turbulent convention with such high anti-war sentiment. Inside the convention, delegates bitterly
argued an antiwar plank in the party platform that both Kennedy and McCarthy supporters
favored.
The Democratic National Convention (1968) was a gathering in Chicago of thousands of
anti-war protesters. They, as well as the media and bystanders were violently beaten by the
police. “The whole world is watching!” was the chant they used. Hubert Humphrey received a
nomination for his party’s candidate for the democratic president (he would lose to Nixon).
George Wallace 804 George Wallace was the Alabama Governor who ran for president under
the Democratic Party. This guy was a HARD Conservative, who supported segregation. He
argued under a platform of going against social reform, denouncing integration and antiwar
demonstrations. He was never a real candidate who was gonna win, but he still got a decent
20% support in the polls at times.
Nixon Victorious 805 Doubts about Nixon’s character made some skeptical of his abilities as a
president, and the actually Democratic candidate Hubert Humphrey put up a very good fight
against Nixon. However, uh turns out Richard Nixon won by like 800,000 votes, which isn’t a lot.
Henry Kissinger 824 Nixon appointed him to be a national security adviser. They wanted to
stalemate in vietnam by Vietnamization(transfer of responsibility in the war back to the south
vietnamese people) which didn't work so they went to military pressure as the answer yay i love
violence
Kent State 825 Richard Nixon sends the national guard to stop the protesting college students
in Ohio. National guard kills 4 students and 9 were wounded. The protests were because the
Vietnam war was kind of fucked up, yo. Kind of fucked because they were exercising their right
to assemble and killing political dissidents is like. Not cool, man.



[PAGE 231]

Consequences of “Vietnamization” 825 The policy of “Vietnamization” was where they gave the
South Vietnamese resources and training so they could take the responsibility of the war efforts.
Nixon announces the reduction of 60k troops from Vietnam after the fall of 1969(what is this? (I
think it’s like the time of year) (ohhhh taht would make sense i thought it meant the fall of
something LOL))
It was the US’ way of pulling out of Vietnam while still trying to maintain influence in Vietnam.
Guys was richard nixon one of the things they carried????
I’m gonna morb rn?
My Lai Massacre 826 (IAN LAI THE GOLF GOAT?????)
The US Army had a lack of morale and a lack of discipline, as the war seemed to be pointless
and losing. Making things worse, the US army had a lot of problems with desertion, racism, drug
addiction, refusal to listen to orders, and fragging (killing unpopular officers). Making things
worse, a lot of Soldiers were paranoid as hell due to the Viet Cong’s tactics of dressing up like
civilians. This led to One William Calley leading a massacre of 300 people in an unarmed
village, believing (at least he said) that everyone in the village was a Viet Cong. This of course,
was covered up by the government until it wasn’t, and it ruined the Government’s image even
more than it already had with other things about the Vietnam War.
Easter Offensive 826 The Easter Offensive was During March 1972, when the North
Vietnamese mounted the biggest Offensive since Tet. American and South Vietnamese forces
held on, but it was clear that America was the one hard carrying the war fr. At the same time,
Americans bombed the cities of Hanoi, Haiphong, and mined harbors to prevent naval trade.
“Christmas Bombing” 826 So for Much of the spring and summer of 1972, Kissinger and Le Duc
Tho were working out the terms for a ceasefire, and by October 26, things were looking good.
However, Some SOuth Vietnamese General was bitching about getting ALL North Vietnamese
soldiers out of South Vietnam, which led to negotiations breaking down. The Day after
Negotiations broke down, Nixon decided to bomb Hanoi, Haiphong, and North Vietnam in
general. This led to the destruction of 15 Bomber planes (Which is 15 times the amount of
bomber planes lost in the war so far (one)) and also the media reporting on the deaths of a tom
of civilians, which did not go well.
On January 27 1973, a cease fire was signed, which was pretty much the same agreement,
where American Hostages are freed and stuff.
Fall of Saigon 826 After the Ceasefire and America kind of stepping back, the South
Vietnamese had lost their 1000lp Challenger Smurf in their boosted plat lobby. South Vietnam
quickly lost MORE people in a year than the US had for the 10 years of fighting they had been
doing. In March 1975, Saigon gets attacked by the North Vietnamese, and they take the City,
rename it Ho Chi Minh City (original) and then begin reunification. At the same Time, Cambodia
is undergoing a Massacre under the rule of Khmer Rouge and Pol Pot.



[PAGE 232]

At the end of the war 1.2 Million Vietnamese had died, and the US lost $150 Billion and 55,000
Americans. A lot more were injured, and a lot of Americans lost faith in their government and its
competency. But at least they got democracy (clueless)
Toward a “Multipolar” World 827 Kissinger and Nixon realized that there were in fact, other
powerful countries other than the US and USSR. They believed that America had to adapt to a
world where China, Japan, and other European Countries could become major powerful forces.
Nixon’s China Visit 827 To Help further his vision of a Multipolar world, Nixon Visited China
which helped improve America’s public image in China. They also wanted to improve relations
with the USSR, so being friendly to another communist country probably looked good.
Salt I 827 The Strategic Arms Limitation Treaty I was a major part of Kissinger's Detente plan,
which was not mentioned, but it was in AP World. Detente is basically de escalation so yeah.
But SALT froze the quantity of nuclear missiles for both the USSR and US at the current levels,
and no other nuclear weapons would be made.
Nixon Doctrine 827 The Nixon Doctrine was a kinda isolationist policy now where the US is like
“We are your allies and will help you, but you have to do all the defense part yourself”. This was
basically a response to the Vietnam War’s disastrous results.
“Six-Day War” 828 In 1967, Israel jumped Egyptian, Syrian, and Jordanian Forces in Jerusalem
and occupied territories on the Jordan River, the Gaza strip , the Golan Heights, and a lot of
other land. It also had the side effect of pissing off a lot of Palestinians who had been living
there for a while, but details amirite?
Anyway this led to Egypt and Syria attacking Israel on Yom Kippur, and Israel led a successful
counterattack. This whole thing was gonna explode, so the US used its force and asked Israel
very nicely to stop before things escalated.
Arab Oil Embargo 828 A Lot of Middle Eastern Countries embargoed Oil to the US to protest its
support of Israel. This had a LOT of impact on the US economy, which runs on oil pretty much.
READING QUIZ#9 INFO ENDS HERE
READING QUIZ#10 INFO STARTS HERE
Silent Spring - I don’t know what ts is about but it’s written by Rachel Carson. It’s literally just
about how pesticides are bad and stuff.



[PAGE 233]

The Great Society 784 The Great Society was a reform program that was similar to the New
Deal. What did the Great Society do? See below, because this point doesn't really mention it.
But what else does this point mention?
Johnson was a really popular guy, and the death of JFK led to a lot of sympathy support for his
reforms.
Medicare and Medicaid 784 Medicare was a program to aid the elderly’s medical expenses.
Some people argued against it claim it it to be socialism, but as the program went into effect it
was pretty good so people stopped complaining.
It stopped complaints by being available to everyone, which got rid of the “But it’s welfare!”
complaint, leading to many middle class Americans being eligible.
It also let doctors charge bills like they normally would, just that the government would pay the
bills.
The Medicaid program extended the Medicare program to welfare recipients and other people
that were like, eligible for social security and stuff (low-income, poor people).
Easy way to remember: aid the poor, care for the old
Community Action Program 784 The Community action program was an effort to get people in
poor communities to be active in the planning and administration of welfare programs meant to
help them. This led to many people getting experience in administration and political work. THis
helped a lot of politicians and activists get their head start. However, the program quickly died
due to a lack of power in creating change and also lack of funding.
Housing and Urban Development 785 The Housing Act of 1961 led to a lot of money for cities to
build Transportations systems and middle income housing. The Department of Housing and
Urban Development was created. Yeah. What did it do? IDK FUCK THIS BOOK MAN IT
DOENS’T SAY SHIT SOMETIMES.
ANd also the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 led to a lot of money being
given to private and parochial schools.
Immigration Act of 1965 The Immigration Act of 1965 first abolished the Immigration Act of
1920 and set a strict limit on immigrants entering the US per year (170,000), but removed the
racial part of the quota system meaning that no Europeans or whatever were favored. Except
for Latin America. But everywhere else? Yeah go ahead.
This led to a massive amount of Asians entering the US. Basically, Asians win, European and
Latinos lose.
Failures and Achievements of the Great Society 785a Overall the Great Society led to a
massive increase in Government spending and a growing economy. However as more



[PAGE 234]

programs were implemented, the programs began to compete for funding with the US Army, and
government spending was rising too high for how effective the programs were (not that good)
By the 1980s, many Americans believed the program to be a failure. However, It DID
substantially reduce hunger, made medicare available to many elderly (65+ y.o) people,
and medicaid contributed to the greatest reduction of poverty in American History from
21% below the line in 1959 to 12% in 1969.
“Liberation” 808 In the 1960s and 70s, there was a pattern and movement of cultural and social
protest from young americans. These young Americans often pushed for freeform and equality.
The vision of Liberation saw many minority groups like African Americans, Native Americans,
LGBTQ+ people, and Hispanics push for their rights and recognition by greater society.
Sources of the New Left 808 The new left come from a radicalization of many College students,
embracing the causes of Racial Equality. The New left was often inspired by social critics like C
Wright Mills, who wrote a series of essays on the flaws of modern society. Other people in the
new left admired communist leaders like Mao Zedong or Ho Chi Minh. But most of the New Left
drew inspiration from the very successful Civil Rights Movement.
SDS 809(Students for a Democratic Society)
- 1962, bunch of preppy students formed the SDS in Michigan
- They grumpy with current politics
The Students for a Democratic Society was an organization focused on building a new political
system and create reforms. They tried to get poor and working class people to be politically
motivated, with little success.
Free Speech Movement 809 The Free Speech movement was a thing going on at UC Berkeley
with students challenging the administration and going on strike. These students protested
against the impersonal character of modern university, and denouncing the role of educational
institutions in maintaining the corrupt status quo. This led to a lot of rioting and protesting and
stuff
TC:DR 1964’s Free Speech movement was a student protest demanding the right to engage in
political speech on campus after UC Berkely decided to restrict political speech and activism on
campus.
People’s Park 809 The People’s Park debacle was a fight over an empty lot in UC Berkeley.
Students wanted to build a park, but the University wanted a parking lot. This thing escalated to
an extreme degree, with many students protesting for the building of a park. Many students
began believing that the Campus Administration, police, and Political and Economic Systems
were all part of one united oppressive force (literally 1984)
Also adding fuel to the fire, an SDS splinter faction called the Weathermen to do a little trolling
and began bombing and burning buildings. Students also protested against the Vietnam War,
targeting the ROTC and military recruiters, and also laboratories producing weapons for the war.



[PAGE 235]

“Bloody Sunday” - police clashed with protestors at People’s park led to 100 injuries and the
death of James Rector.
“Hippies” 811 “hippie” was a term people used for the Youth Culture of long hair, shabby
clothing, and overall rebellious behavior. Many Hippies also did drugs like weed and LSD, and
were also more openly sexual thanks to new birth control methods.
Their counterculture movement challenged the structure of modern society, arguing against it’s
corporatism and materialism.
Haight Ashbury 812
- Haight Ashbury was a part of SF. They was hella extreme believers in counterculture
- Many Hippies also moved to mure rural areas in order to live a simpler and more
“natural” lifestyle
Growing Influence of Rock n’ Roll 812
- Pretty self explanatory
- Rock N Roll gained popularity due to the themes of anger, frustration, and rebellion that
many young Americans identified with.
- Important guys: Rolling stones, Beatles, Buddy Holly.
- IMPORTANT NOTE: Elvis was not one of the guys that supported youth counter culture,
the 3 mentioned above did.
Idea of an Interrelated World 821 If you guys remember, the environmentalists of old were
people that really cared about, well, the environment. However, this was more out of a care for
the visual appeal of the natural world around them, their main concern was that of preserving
the natural beauty of the world around them. As the world of science moved forward however, a
new field of study, Ecology, popped up. This field of study focused more on the impacts of
certain industries on the environment, and was more focused on preserving the environment for
the sake of preserving nature rather than for a pretty view.
Ecology’s Postwar Growth 822 in 1945-1960 number ecologists grew and almost doubled and in
1960s and 70s governments, universities, and foundations began to fund ecological science
and soon many universities would have their own ecology programs and departments
This leads to many ecologists publishing their works and trying to promote better care for
environments and trying to deal with environmental crises
New Professional Environmental Activists 822 before the growth in environmentalism there
were many organizations that existed and now were committed to the ideas of
environmentalism. With these organizations having an interest in this new Environmental
Activists rose up.
These activists were not only scientists but also lawyers, lobbyists and such. Their goal was to
create a better environment through political and legal means.



[PAGE 236]

- Wilderness Society, Sierra Club, National Audubon Society, Nature Conservancy
National Wildlife Federation, and the National Parks and Conservation Association
Water and Air Pollution 823
Water Pollution - many major cities were dealing with bad smells and pollution of rivers became
a real problem with people now concerned about health risks
- This might not be important but the Cuyahoga river in ohio has so much petroleum
dumped into it that it would occasionally just light on fire(ofc its ohio)
Air Pollution - With mass pollution from factories and power plants people began to become
afraid of the air itself being unhealthy and aware of their cars poisoning the atmosphere.
- he word “smog” was invented through weather forecasts describing the smoke fog as
smog levels which was a normal in large cities such as LA and Denver
Environmentalists began to bring awareness to the use of oil and fossil fuels and also the
destruction of bodies of water due to acid rain(water that is contaminated falling as rain causing
dangerous levels of chemicals killing aquatic plants and animals). Also like deforestation and
stuff. Most of this stuff you already know its just like stuff about caring for the environment
The First “Earth Day” 823
April 22 1970 was the first earth day where people gathered in schools, universities, churches,
clubs, etc for the first Earth Day, which was proposed by the Wisconsin Senator Gaylord Nelson.
EPA Established 823 in 1970 Nixon signs the Environmental Protection Act which created the
Environmental Protection Agency which enforces anti-pollution standards on businesses and
consumers.
- 1970 Clean Air Act
- 1972 Clean Water Act
2.6 Hog Cycle 823 bowin chen throw a lot of men sitting on swines ( erm ashually 2.6 hog cycle uses hog
rider and saying swines instists that you might be talking about royal hogs which is often used in a much
higher elixer deck such … as idk im just making shit up at this point but also HOG RIDAAA yeah so yup)
(royal hogs don’t have men sitting on them though. (YOURE THE RIDER? (no, you decide where they
start at, not where they go, whereas the hog rider is the one wrangling the quadrepedal abomination that
is the pig (thats kinda mean what if the hog read that!!!! (acab? idk) ) ) ) Using context clues you can figure
out that i am talking about the hog rider. You unamerican freak) at my towers until they die :(
Dismantling the Great Society 828 Nixon’s main followers were the Middle Class White people
who wanted to reduce federal interference in their daily lives. Nixon defined a lot of programs
from the Great Society, and refused to pass legislation that would further the Great Society’s
goals. However, he wasn’t a 100% conservative. He wanted to pass the Family assistance Plan,
which was the super new idea of universal income for all American Families. However, that plan
was killed by a lot of conservatives in the Senate. Oh Well.



[PAGE 237]

Baker v. Carr 829 Baker V Carr was a court case by the Warren Court, which was what they
called the currently pretty Liberal Supreme Court. This case required electoral districts to be
portioned so each vote had equal weight among all voters in a State. At the time, rural areas
with white people were given the same power as all the Minorities in an urban area, which really
marginalized them and got rid of a lot of their Voting Power.
Baker v Board of Regents of California 829 This Court CaseMaintained Affirmative Action.
What’s that? Good Question. It’s like when the government gives additional help to
disenfranchised people and minorities who need it. Equity sort of thing.
The Stuff BEFORE this point is pretty important though.
The supreme court was pretty OLD so a lot of them left during Nixon’s term. During that time, he
replaced many of the Justices with more conservative people who shared his views.
Despite the massive Conservative shift, the SUpreme court still made many important social
reforms, such as overturning the Death Penalty and Legalizing Abortion.
George McGovern 829
In 1972 George Wallace was assassinated so George McGovern was re-elected as senator and
was made the new democratic candidate in South Dakota (a very liberal place). He took liberal
perspectives to social and economic issues His name was Govern???
Nixon’s Landslide 829 Nixon DESTROYED GEORGE in the 1972 election. One of the biggest
landslides in history winning 60% compared to 57% in popular vote and 520 to 17 in electoral
votes
Inflation 830 inflation has been creeping up on American society since it has become the
strongest currency in the world. The causes for the inflation rate were because
- In the 60s the Johnson Administration tried to fund the Vietnam War WITHOUT raising
taxes.
- The US also lost exclusive access to cheap raw materials due to the rise in other
industrialized nations competing for this resource causing the suppliers to demand
higher prices.
- The oil reserves the US has been using for petroleum isn't sufficient enough to have
cheap gas.
OPEC 831 (Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries) OPEC has struggles to negotiate oil
trade with third world countries causing a reliance on countries in the middle east for the oil, but
during the Yom Kippur War(Israel vs Arab Coalition(Egypt and Syria)) Arab members of OPEC
refused to ship oil to countries that supported Israel(many West EU and the US). This causes
OPEC nations to raise their oil priced by 400% causing the first oil shortage since WWII. (Oil
Shock of 1973)



[PAGE 238]

Deindustrialization 831 By the 1970s the US factories were getting old and worse compared to
the new Japanese and European ones. The US steel and car factories were having too much
competition from these foreign nations, and along with lower labor costs US factories seemed
inferior. This is when the US begins their deindustrialization; thousands of factories across the
US close down and millions of Americans lose their jobs.
This causes a change from the previous labor based industries to be replaced by the knowledge
based industry allowing America to get back on its feet from 80s to 90s.
“Stagflation” 832 A Very bad mix of economic Stagnation (flat economic growth) and Economic
inflation during the 1970s. In the summer of 1971, Nixon tried to fix things by freezing all wages
and prices on goods for 90 days. He then released guidelines for wage and price increases to
be administered by the government. Later on, government spending and dropping interest rates
helped fix the economy with a bandaid but uh inflation still. bad.
The Changing Presidency 832 Nixon had a bunch of bad scandals that ruined his public image.
Nixon wanted to get a lot of reforms done, but since WWII, the power that the president held
had been slowly limited and constrained. Nixon resorted to less than legal methods in order to
pass the legislation he wanted.
The Watergate Break-In 833 On June 17 1972, 5 men were arrested for breaking into the
Watergate office building in Washington DC. The Scandal part of this was that some of these
burglars were former employees of government branches related to the president. One of the
suspects worked at the White House. Also the group had been paid by a fund controlled by the
White House Staff.
In 1973, the Watergate Trials underwent, where many confessions were made exposing many
Nixon and Whitehouse officials.
“Cover-Up” 833 Another thing that popped up from the trials and the thing Watergate is notable
for is the way the Nixon administration attempted to cover up or hinder the Watergate Break In
investigation . There was no conclusive evidence of Nixon planning the burglary, but there was
proof he had tried to stop the investigation.
Also bad for Nixon was his refusal to hand over some tapes during a Senate Hearing that had
recorded all of Nixon’s conversations in his office at the time. Uh that was pretty suspicious so
there was a special court case to force Nixon to hand the tapes over.
Nixon tried to fire Archibald Cox, the prosecutor of the “hand over the tapes Nixon” trial, which
led to…
“Saturday Night Massacre” 833 Attorney General Elliot Richardson and his Deputy resigning in
protest of Nixon’s Actions. This made the public image of Nixon go way down, and a new
prosecutor Leon Jaworski was also very very willing to make Nixon hand the tapes over.



[PAGE 239]

US v. Richard M. Nixon 833 In 1973, Nixon’s Vice President was caught accepting bribes, which
basically made him resign from being in government. Since Nixon was on his own at this point,
the US had a Supreme Court Case US V Richard M Nixon , which ended with Nixon being
forced to hand over the tapes. This led to the proposal to impeach Nixon, under 3 charges
1. Obscuring Justice with the Watergate Coverup
2. Misusing Federal Agencies to violate Citizens Rights
3. Defying Congress by not handing over those damn tapes
Things were not looking good for Nixon, as many of the tapes had pretty damning evidence that
Nixon covered up Watergate, with him ordering the FBI to not investigate.
Nixon Resigns 833 On August 8 1974, Nixon FFed his presidency and resigned. At noon the
next day, Gerald Ford became president. Many Americans were happy that Nixon was gone, as
he led to a massive public discrediting of the government.
Nixon Pardoned 838 One of the first things Ford did as president was pardon Nixon, which
instantly ruined his public image because like, people still hated Nixon and believed Ford was
being paid off or something.
Ford’s Diplomatic Successes 838 Gerald Ford and Henry Kissinger had some major Diplomatic
wins with SALT II, limiting even more arms between the US and USSR. Also, Kissinger helped
Israel and Egypt stop fighting and had Israel return land to Egypt that was previously occupied.
In the 1976 Election, Republican Ronald Regan lost to Democrat Jimmy Carter , who people
voted for because people didn’t like Ford.
Carter’s Lack of Direction 839 Carter was kind of a political outsider, which made people vote
for him as he was unrelated to the chaotic politics in the US with Nixon and Watergate and such.
However, Carter didn’t really have a goal or Vision for the US like other presidents. Carter
proposed a lot of stuff, like tax and welfare reforms, but Congress did not pass most of his
proposals.
High Interest Rates 839 Due to high oil prices, there was a lot of interest rates in general, which
was bad. And since Jimmy Carter was president, they blamed him for those interest rates.
Camp David Accords 840 The Camp David Accords was an agreement between Egypt and
Israel. On September 1978 Carter announced a framework for a peace treaty between the two
countries. At the same time, Carter tried to improve relations with the USSR and China, by
agreeing to meet with Deng Xiaoping and also traveling to meet with Brezhnev to discuss SALT
II.



[PAGE 240]

Iranian Revolution 840 In 1979, Iran had been led by an Autocratic Shah, who people didn’t like,
and the churches didn’t like him either which made a lot of the religious people in Iran against
him. People didn’t like how he tried to modernize and Westernize society, and they led a
revolution. The chaos in the country prevented the US from engaging in diplomacy. The Shah
fled to New York, which led to a hostage situation at the US embassy in Iran with people being
taken hostage until the Shah was sent back to Iran to be killed or whatever.
Also the USSR decided to invade Afghanistan at the time, which was not a good thing for the
world political climate, and it really heightened US/USSR Tensions.
Carter’s Falling Popularity 841 The Hostage Crisis, economic troubles, and overall world chaos
led to the American People not liking Carter very much.
READING QUIZ#10 INFO ENDS HERE
READING QUIZ#11 INFO STARTS HERE
Rise of the “Sunbelt” 842 The Sunbelt was the Southeast(florida), Southwest(texas), and
California, states with significantly more people than other states. The Sunbelt often had a lot of
conservative politics, with people arguing for a weaker government and less regulations. For
example, people did not like the literally 1984 changes like speed limits and environmental laws.
Sagebrush Rebellion 842 the Sagebrush Rebellion was a western conservative movement
against environmental laws and restrictions on urban and industrial development. It portrayed
the Western US as suffering because of government control, and demanded that land in the
west be open to development
Suburban Conservatism 842 One place notable for its conservativeness was Orange County in
California. Many suburbs were full of only white people, and the echo chamber suburbs created
a massive conservative populace. Also they liked their shopping malls or something. One
important note: Malls became huge during this era and designed to cater towards women and
families.
Evangelical Christianity 843 Another 1970s development was the development of a religious
revival like the Great Awakening. Except this time people started making cults like
Scientologym, the Unification Church of Reverend Sun Myung Moon, and the People’s temple.
Also Evangelical Christianity, which argued that people could directly talk to god and be reborn
or something. TV Pastors became a major thing, and many Americans believed in their “Born
Again by Talking to God” christianity or something, creating their own Christian Media(radio,

