[PAGE 241]

media, newspaper, tv, internet websites), companies, schools, and like stuff where they had fly
rhymes and sick beats and big crews that grew in size.
Here are some examples of evangelicals just in case we almost get ass fucked by a reading
quiz (AHEM, Elvis): Billy Graham, Oral Roberts
Ronald Reagan 844 Ronald Reagan was a popular Actor who somehow became a political
Activist. He was inspired by FDR at first(Yay!), but later his second wife, Nancy Davis,
convinced him to become a conservative (aw fuck). He somehow made it to being the leader of
the Republican Party and became the Governor of California somehow. He also became a
spokesperson for General Electric.
Proposition 13 845 Prop 13 was a tax revolt in California, where Prop 13 would lower property
tax rates. Since the New Deal, Conservatives have been unhappy with the growth of federal
welfare programs. Conservatives often tried to defeat or defund these programs with mediocre
success. Things like Medicaid and Social Security were very popular with the people, so
defunding these things without political suicide was very very very hard.
But then people found out that instead of defunding specific programs, you can just limit the
amount of money the Government has.
Attacking Taxes 845 By lowering the tax rates, the government’s ability to create or
maintain welfare programs was smacked in the kneecaps with a metal bat. In addition,
telling voters they are paying less taxes goes a lot better than telling voters they are losing their
social security so there was that.
1980 Election 845 In the 1980 Election, Reagan was the Republican Nominee, arguing that
Carter wasn’t able to do anything like fix the Iranian Hostage Crisis or fix the economy. Reagan
beat Jimmy Carter by 10 percent 51 % for Reagan to 41% for Carter. The other 7% voted for
John Anderson, and the remainder voted for other people.
Ironically enough, Iran gave the hostages back on the day Reagan was inaugurated. This was
because Jimmy Carter froze Iran’s assets, and it turns out governments really need their assets
and their money.
Corporate Elites 846 Reagan’s cabinet and personal Coalition of supporters were rich people
and corporation leaders. They all believed that Capitalism would lead to more economic growth,
and that the government did not need to do anything at all to fix the economy.
“Neoconservatives” 846 A second of Regan’s followers were neoconservatives, people who
believed that Radical Change was to blame for destabilizing the economy, American Life, and
stuff. Their main goal was to reaffirm Anti Communist values and went against “political
correctness”.
Imagine those “anti woke” twitter people but in the 1970s. That’s a pretty good way of putting it.



[PAGE 242]

Populist Conservatives 846 The Populist Conservative group was a group of people suspicious
of a secret power manipulating the government?? They believed that Kissinger, the
Rockefellers, and other people were manipulating American Society.
They voiced often common fears of centralized power and influence, and a fear of a secret
powerful government limiting freedoms.
Uh WHAT?????? Bet you a tenner that they also believed that it was jewish people doing that
because all those kooks are raving antisemites.
“Reaganomics” 846 Reagan believed in “Supply Side Economics” which operated on the
assumption that the reason why the economy was dying was because of too much taxes, which
reduced the amount of money people had to invest into companies. This led to Reagan
reducing taxes to corporations and wealthy individuals in order to encourage new investments.
These rich people and corporations would reinvest their money, which would TRICKLE DOWN
to the people or something.
What.
Well clearly me as kha’zix sitting on 6/0 stealing enemy adc’s 300g shutdown and support’s
150g is me just letting the money trickle down to you guys.
Deregulation 847 Reagan also deregulated a lot of American society, leading to the
development of more public land, the reduction of Environment Protection laws, and less
enforcement of civil rights laws . In addition, implementation of safety standards on roads was
reduced. Reagan believed that having the government interfere less with society would be
better for the economy.
Soaring National Debt 847 It was not better for the economy. In fact, Reagan fucked up so bad
the amount of debt Reagan accumalted was more thant the US government had EVER
ACCUMULATED IN ITS ENTIRE HISTORY . So much for trickling down.
Clearly our debt will trickle down to China.
Welfare Benefits cut 847 The Debt had a lot of causes, such as the rising cost of programs like
Medicaid and Social Security. A lot of the people who were young when these programs were
implemented were reaching social security age at this point, which turned out to be a LOT OF
PEOPLE. Also the tax cuts made it harder for the government to be able to pay out social
security. Also also Reagan increased Military Spending by a fuckton for some reason.



[PAGE 243]

SDI 848 Strategic Defence Initiative. The US was scared of foreign powers using nuclear
weapons from outer space to attack the US (it would be a lot less detectable), so they started
the SDI, or as most people call it, Star Wars to counter the threat. It FLOPPED. HARD. The
irony behind it all is that TODAY we have brought back something similar, being the US Space
Force. (george lucas tried to sue over the name star wars because he didn’t want star wars to
be related to anything IRL)
Reagan Doctrine 849 Reagan Doctrine was basically Ronald Reagan directly attacking
communism by funding anti-government militia/rebel groups that would hopefully provide an
offense vs anti American/pro-Marxists regimes that showed relationships to the USSR.
Terrorism 849 - Terrorism was very common during this time, especially with third world
countries struggling with political, economy and social issues. Small groups would advance their
political aims by using terroism, often attacking: airplanes, political buildings, cruise ships, and
malls. They also yoinked a bunch of Western hostages to scare the western world.
Mikhail Gorbachev 850 The final leader of the USSR, Mikhail Gorbachev was bringing the
USSR to a state that was perceived as more acceptable in the late 80s, allowing for cool stuff
like more freedoms/rights, free speech/open criticism, and most importantly; showing up in a
fucking badass Pizza Hut ad
Pizza Hut Gorbachev TV Spot Commercial :60 International version
Gorbachev also made sure to part ways with a LOT of the satellite states which had wanted
independence from the USSR for a long time. Overall, Gorbachev really tried to modernize the
deteriorating USSR, but in the end the country was in such bad shape that…
Tiananmen Square 850 Nothing happened on Tiananmen Square in June of 1989. Seriously
though, I don’t really know why this is a term considering the textbook does not tie this part of
the textbook to any sort of US history.
If you somehow don’t know, in June of 1989, Chinese college students went to Tiananmen
Square, which is the square right outside of the forbidden city (building where the emperor used
to live) requesting for better living conditions as dirt poor college students (if you have 70s
Chinese immigrant parents you can probably ask them about their college experience. My
parents recall living in a room barely the size of my bedroom while making pennies), and
because of some questionable government decisions, the Chairman, Deng Xiao Ping approved
of the Chinese military to send armed soldiers and TANKS to the square, with orders to open
fire if necessary. There is no public # of how many people were killed (mainly because the CCP
denies that anything ever happened on that day), but the # is said to be in the hundreds, even
scraping the thousands (from footage/pictures of the aftermath). This leads me into a little stupid
fucking rant on just how terrible the CCP is at actually governing it’s people, covering up your
mistakes is SUCH a shit way to deal with shitty history, mistakes should be learnt from and by
censoring past mistakes it doesn’t really help you at all.



[PAGE 244]

Dissolution of the USSR 850 …on christmas day 1991, the USSR collapsed, leaving the future
of Russia to be decided.
Savings and Loan Crisis 851 The textbook doesn’t really cove2r this (one sentence in fact, not
even covering exactly what happened), but basically Ronnie Raegan got away with WAY too
many crimes due to his popularity as president (actor president, remember. This is how Trump
has a cult following as well), and one of these was the Savings and Loan Crisis, in which due to
Raegan’s mass deregulation, banks were able to basically scam the shit out of people and as
such a number similar to like $124 billion dollars were lost out of everyday American citizens .
Iran-Contra Scandal 851 Raegan. Sell. weapon. To the Iranian revolutionary government, which
the US was not supposed to be doing. Even worse, the US gov was found to be using the
money from these weapon sales to fund Nicaragu an Contras. Something to note here is that
this is not the first or the last time we will see the US funding groups that it really shouldn’t be
(you ever wonder how the Taliban, ISIS, and Al Qaeda got their money?)
Political Gridlock 852 George W Bush’s domestic policies were met with mostly unhappy
sentiments, because he promised to get rid of the federal debt which had been building up for a
while (thanks Nixon/Reagan!), while not imposing any new taxes, so people were really
wondering how in the fuck this would work.
1990 Recession 852 Remember the whole Reagan deregulation thang? Well this has come to
bite Reagan and his oh so beloved corporation in the ass, because now the US and it’s
corporations are in massive debt, leading to the 1990 recession, which hit the US extremely
hard since so many corporations with working class employees had to file for bankruptcy.
Invasion of Kuwait 853 (This talks about Operation desert storm) Saddam Hussein-led Iraq
invaded Kuwait, which the US didn’t really like, so Bush decided to counter the offensive by
sending in 400 thousand US troops . The offensive ended pretty soon (thanks to the help of
intense bombing campaigns), and the US lost apparently just 141 casualties to Iraq’s 100,000.
Kuwait was considered the end of the whole US shabang in the West Asian region, but as we
know that was most definitely not the case. We left-hooked the shit outa Saddam with GPS, our
fricken superior air force and navy, and our love for oil. For those who don’t know! The left-hook
strategy was literally just moving west of Iraq. Yeah. That was it and we won the war.



[PAGE 245]

Bill Clinton 854 Since everybody kind of expected Bush to win the democratic candidacy again,
nobody really ran against him. Besides 2, young Arkansas governor Bill Clinton and…
Ross Perot 854 … T exas billionaire Ross Perot, who was popular at the start but then lost
popularity for some unknown reason (thanks textbook), so he withdrew.
Election ended with Clinton by the way. You already know that though if you’ve paid attention
before once in your life.
William Jefferson Clinton 857
Can you guys do me a quick favor? Analyze this passage. See if you can see the name “William
Jefferson Clinton” ANYWHERE besides the blue term. Yifei…William Jefferson Clinton is Bill
Clinton’s legal name… Contrary to popular belief Bill is actually not a very common legal name
oh.
New Business Practices 861 After Stagflation, Bush’s presidency marked a revival of the US
economy (not incited by Bush, but Bush’s timing was in that period). Companies were investing
a lot more in technology, and most importantly, they were getting cheap labor, which was good
for big corporations but terrible for union workers.
Technology Industries 861 Digital technology made it possible for an enormous range of new
products: computers, the Internet, cell phones, digital music, all that. The technology industries
created many new jobs and produced new consumer needs. But they did not create as many
jobs as older industrial sectors had.
Development of the PC 863 Whoopee Ians getting one of these soon! With Intel’s development
of the computer processor in the 70s, there was plenty of room for tech companies to try and
tinker with a public personal computer for home use. The first iteration was the Apple PC, and
later the IBM PC.
ARPA 863 The ARPA was the Advanced Research Projects Agency.. It funneled federal funds
into scientific research projects, many of which were defense related. This was due to the
emergence of the internet, which drastically ramped up the availability of information and
communication.
World Wide Web 863 I think we all know what this is. For those cavemen living among us, this is
basically the system in which information is stored and published on the internet. It drastically



[PAGE 246]

optimized both the distribution and retrieval of electronic information. A guy named Tim
Berners-Lee, a brit from Geneva introduced it. (saying the acronym WWW is longer than just
saying world wide web)
Social Media - In the 2000s, tech led to the rise of social media like LinkedIn, YT, Facebook and
Twitter followed by Instagram and Tik Tok. These guys changed the way people communicated,
shared info and did business. They also became important tools for political movements and
campaigns but were also good at spreading misinformation.
Critics of Intervention - Criticism of globalization and US interventionist foreign policy grew after
the Cold War. They didn’t like it cuz it caused job loss through free trade, poor labor conditions
in developing countries, environmental damage and increased corporate power at the expense
of common people.
Critics on the left said the US used the Gulf War and Iraq War to protect economic interests.
While those on the right said that the US was losing control by getting involved in Somalia and
the Balkans.
Globalization Protested - The World Trade Organization, International Monetary Fund and World
bank were seen as these bad guys turning non-western economies into Western ones,
increasing poverty and debt, and cutting public services in exchange for loans.
Big protests such as the 1999 Seattle WTO meeting, Genoa in 2001 and other protests at DC
showed people were pissed.
Rise of Islamic Fundamentalism - Iranian revolution in 1979 began the rise of Islamic
Fundamentalism. Lots of new anti-west movements spawned in Islam, with extremist groups
using terrorism to destabilize govs and be mean to the west.
Origins of Terrorism - Terrorism came from the French revolution but by the 20th and 21st
century it became a big issue. The Beirut barracks bombing, embassy bombings and Oklahoma
City bombings were all examples of US getting terrorists attacks. Lots of people thought
terrorism was an international thing, but after 9/11, they got pretty serious about it.
Economic Progress for African Americans 865 For the black middle class, which in 2000-2010
constituted over half of the African American population of America, progress was remarkable in
the decades after the high point of the civil rights movement. Families moved into more-affluent
urban and suburban communities, and the percentage of black high-school graduates going
onto college was the same as that of white high-school graduates(Admittedly, there was a
smaller proportion of blacks than whites who completed high school).
The “Underclass” 865 Even though many Black families were moving out of lower income areas
and getting better jobs, there was still a large portion (⅓ of the Black population) that didn’t get
the same fortune as their peers, and their issues only got worse. More than 60% of this



[PAGE 247]

“Underclass” was unemployed, less than half did not graduate high school and around 40% of
households were headed by a single parent. In addition, introduction of drugs into low income
neighborhoods ruined the lives of many. The sources for the drugs ranged from gangs, criminal
organizations, and most strangely: the Federal Government.
Opioid Crisis - When doctors began giving patients opioid painkillers, people began overdosing
and dying cuz addiction exists. After the gov put their regulation stuff on it, people turned to
heroin and other illegal drugs, worsening the problem. From 1999 to 2019, 500k people died
from overdoes and cost the US 80 billion dollars in healthcare, lost productivity and law
enforcement.
AIDS Epidemic 866 AIDS is a product of HIV but they spread out a lot more. It hit the gay
community particularly hard since AIDS is passed through bodily fluids and affected them the
most. Due to the fact that the US government really didn’t give a rats ass about the LGBTQ+
community it led to hundreds of thousands of gay men dying without any sort of support since a
lot of hospitals would refuse to treat them. In addition, because of this, you had a LOT of people
just straight up dying out in the streets, and this is something that I learned from my old English
teacher who was there for the epidemic, he recalls seeing people particularly in SF just straight
up dying in the middle of the street.
NAFTA 857 North American Free Trade Agreement. It got rid of American trade borders with its
neighbors in Canada, Mexico, etc. Later Clinton also got hold of the G(y)ATT, which was the
General Agreement on Trade Tariffs, which is a really big trade agreement overseeing trade
between 153 fucking countries.
Failure of Health-Care Reform 857 Clinton’s most ambitious goal was to rework healthcare in
the US, appointing his wife Hillary to do the job. She proposed to have the US cover healthcare
costs for the people, but due to popular backlash it was immediately put away.
Clinton Vs Dole 858 Bill Clinton was up versus Robert Dole in the 1996 Presidential election.
Clinton would end up winning this election. Not much to say here its just another presidential
election term, one of the last as well.
READING QUIZ#11 INFO ENDS HERE
Budget Surpluses 859 Bill Clinton negotiated with a hostile Republican congress on a plan for a
balanced budget, which passed late in 1997. By the end of 1998, the federal budget was
generating its first surplus in 30 years.
Monica Lewinsky 859 Gave Clinton head. After getting the gluck gluck 2k from the young intern,
Clinton was ratted out and eventually he denied and lied about his relationship with Lewinsky,
which was the big inciting reason for his impeachment.



[PAGE 248]

Impeachment 859 The house judiciary committee approved two counts of impeachment: lying to
the grand jury and obstructing justice. It then moved to the Senate, where the first trial since
Andrew Johnson of the president began in early January. This ended with a decisive acquittal of
the president
Kosovo 859 In 1998, a civil war between the Kosovo separatists and the Yugoslavian
government broke out. NATO responded by bombing the Yugoslavians, and the US government
which had been heading the NATO bombing campaign viewed the eventual ceasefire as a
massive success.
Florida 859 The very decisive state of the Bush and Gore election, everything came down to
Florida. While Gore had the popular vote, both candidates were short of the 270 electoral votes.
However, due to a weird printing method on the ballot, it was hard to decide which candidates
people voted for.
The Supreme Court’s Decision 859 As mentioned earlier, Florida fucked up counting in the
votes, so to have it figured out, so a recount was done. However, when the deadline for the
recount came through, the recount was not complete, so instead, The Florida secretary of state
put in Florida’s votes for Bush. Now the vote was neck and neck 266(Gore)-271(Bush), so the
Supreme Court made the final decision, and decided 5-4 in favor of Bush winning.
George W. Bush Verus Al. Gore 859 Another Presidential election term, George W Bush, son of
George HW Bush was the Republican candidate vs Al Gore, the Democratic nominee.
Personally I would have wanted to see Al Gore win because in the later years Al Gore was
actually a pretty cool dude but you can’t and go change history.
Bush Tax Cuts 860 His tax cuts were a central part of his campaign. He said he would use the
budget surplus to fund tax reductions, and he barely won the passage of the largest tax cut in
American history–$1.35 Trillion.
Okay so on the subject of Bush. Due to him being a very big conservative, this guy tried to
revert a lot of progressive changes. First he refused to support a renewal of the assault
weapons ban(which was really effective at stopping mass shootings), and then he proposed a
CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT to ban gay marriage. What the actual fuck man 😭
Al-Qaeda - A f ter 9/11, the US launched the “war on terrorism” which targeted Al-Qaeda and
Osama Bin Laden. The US overthrew the Taliban but didn’t get bin Laden. Laws like the Patriot
Act allowed long detentions (especially in Guantanamo) without trial and raised concerns about
civil liberties. Guantanamo bay was very controversial with trump keeping it open and Biden
wanting it gone.
Hurricane Katrina - It damaged the shit outa the Gulf Coast. It pissed off the people since the
fed gov’s response was too slow which led to loss of Republican majorities in both houses.



[PAGE 249]

Stimulus Package - Due to the financial crisis of 2008, Obama passes the stimulus plan to boost
the economy through: tax cuts, job creation and more gov spending. Some people said it helped
while some people said it increased debt or wasn’t strong enough. Obama also created the
Affordable Care Act (obama care) in 2010 to expand health insurance coverage, which required
that all Americans have insurance.
Tea Party - Conservative movement that didn’t like Obama’s Affordable Care Act and pushed for
lower taxes, less gov spending and a smaller government. It didn’t do much other than help
elect many candidates for midterm elections. Led to more political polarization (no more “I don’t
care about which president is in office”) and gridlock in Congress or whatever that means.
International Relations - Obama ended the Iraq War while increasing troops to Afghanistan to
reshape foreign policy. He then unsuccessfully promoted peace between Israel and Palestine.
He won a Nobel Peace Prize for promoting diplomacy tho so good job to him.
Occupy Wall Street - Obama’s opposition from conservatives and the left led to movements like
Occupy Wall Street which protested economic inequality and growing wealth gap. The supreme
court case: Citizens United v. Federal Election Commission allowed corporations and unions to
spend unlimited money on campaigns which increased the influence of money in politics.
NSA Controversy - Edward Snowden leaks classified NSA docs which revealed government
surveillance of phones and internet data. He then fled the US cuz he was seen as a traitor.
Diplomatic efforts - The US made a nuclear deal with Iran and other nations to limit Iran’s ability
to develop nuclear weapons in return of reducing economic sanctions. Obama also restored
relations with Cuba since the Cuban revolution. He supported the Trans-Pacific Partnership
(TPP) which boosted trade, increased exports and created better jobs for Americans.
Political Gridlock - During his final term, political gridlock made it difficult for Obama to pass
major laws. Efforts to pass gun control laws and immigration reform were all blocked by
conservatives or Republicans.
Miller says that anything beyond this point is pretty irrelevant for Period
8-9’s reading quiz. Anything beyond this point is Trump and beyond, but
obviously take caution, this is just a suggestion. Your choice whether to
study this portion beyond or not. To future Juniors, please confirm this is
true with your teacher since the textbook may change.
Domestic policies -
Trade -



[PAGE 250]

Foreign policy -
Travel ban and immigration policies -
Election interference -
Impeachment -
“Right-to-Life” Movement 866 Opposition to abortion was creating a powerful grassroots
movement. The right-to-life movement, as it called itself, found its most fervent supporters
among Catholics; and the Catholic Church itself lent its institutional authority to the battle
against legalized abortion.
“Pro-Choice” Movement 867 Pro-Choice wasn’t really about abortion since abortion was already
legalized, but more about the social right for women to decide whether or not to keep a child or
not (it is them that have to endure 9 months after all). Clinton was pretty pro-abortion/pro-choice
so for a good period the Pro-Choice movement got a lot of attraction, but afterwards in the Bush
administration it became increasingly risky since Bush was openly anti-abortion.
Human Genome Project 863 In 89, the US government approved 3 billion dollars to go to the
Human Genome Project, which would try to analyze and reproduce human genes.
Women’s March and #Me Too -
Social Justice - Black Lives Matter -
Counter-protesters -
Pandemic response -
Vaccines -
Challenges to the 2020 election -
Attack on the Capitol -
Trump’s Second Impeachment -
Immigration policies -
Economic policies -
Richard Nixon Reincarnates as Ice Spice 869 One of the many things that Richard Nixon was
known for saying, including but not limited to: “Fortnite”, “Among us”, and “skibidi gyatt ohio
rizzler” was that he would like to be reincarnated, specifically as a person of a different gender,



[PAGE 251]

of a different race, and more importantly, as a hip-hop artist or rapper. Coincidently, Richard
Nixon died in 1994, and later, was reincarnated as famous hip hop artist Ice Spice in 2000,
displaying his political power and the important social role that reincarnation played during this
era in response to the war in Afghanistan. As a presidentially awarded “munch”, I feel qualified
to say that he was simply in his “hot girl summer” during the watergate scandal, and that all
those allegations were simply hating on his cuntiness.
Kanye West is in this book (pg 921)
It was fun writing this uh yeah - yifei + rest of OG gang